ISSN 1725-2555
Official Journal L 265
of the European Union
Volume 48
Legislation
English edition 10 October 2005
Contents
I Acts whose publication is obligatory
. . . . . .
II Acts whose publication is not obligatory
Council
2005/690/EC:
★ Council Decision of 18 July 2005 on the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement
establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one
part, and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, of the other part . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Community and its
Member States, of the one part, and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, of the other part . . . . . . 2
Price: EUR 38
EN
Acts whose titles are printed in light type are those relating to day-to-day management of agricultural matters, and are generally valid for a
limited period.
The titles of all other acts are printed in bold type and preceded by an asterisk.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/1
II
(Acts whose publication is not obligatory)
COUNCIL
COUNCIL DECISION
of 18 July 2005
on the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the
European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the People’s Democratic Republic
of Algeria, of the other part
(2005/690/EC)
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, 2. The texts referred to in paragraph 1 are attached to this
Decision.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Commu-
nity, and in particular Article 310 in conjunction with the second
Article 2
sentence of the first subparagraph of Article 300(2) and the sec-
ond subparagraph of Article 300(3) thereof, 1. The position to be taken by the Community within the
Association Council and the Association Committee shall be
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, determined by the Council on the basis of a proposal by the Com-
mission or, where appropriate, by the Commission, each in accor-
Having regard to the assent of the European Parliament (1), dance with the corresponding provisions of the Treaties.
Whereas: 2. In accordance with Article 93 of the Euro-Mediterranean
Association Agreement, the President of the Council shall preside
over the Association Council. A representative of the Commission
(1) The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Asso-
shall preside over the Association Committee in accordance with
ciation between the European Community and its Mem-
the Rules of Procedure thereof.
ber States, of the one part, and the People’s Democratic
Republic of Algeria, of the other part, was signed on behalf
3. The decision to publish the decisions of the Association
of the European Community in Valencia on 22 April 2002,
Council and the Association Committee in the Official Journal of
subject to its possible conclusion at a later date.
the European Union shall be taken on a case-by-case basis by the
Council and the Commission respectively.
(2) The said Agreement should be concluded,
Article 3
HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS:
The President of the Council, on behalf of the European Commu-
nity, is hereby authorised to designate the person or persons
Article 1
empowered to deposit the act of notification provided for in
Article 110 of the Agreement.
1. The Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Asso-
ciation between the European Community and its Member States,
of the one part, and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, Done at Brussels, 18 July 2005.
of the other part, including Annexes and Protocols annexed
thereto and the joint declarations and declarations of the Euro- For the Council
pean Community attached to the Final Act are hereby approved The President
on behalf of the European Community. J. STRAW
(1) OJ C 279 E, 20.11.2003, p. 115.L 265/2 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EURO-MEDITERRANEAN AGREEMENT
establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part,
and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, of the other part
THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM,
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK,
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY,
THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC,
THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN,
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC,
IRELAND,
THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC,
THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG,
THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS,
THE AUSTRIAN REPUBLIC,
THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC,
THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND,
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN,
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND,
Contracting Parties to the Treaty establishing the European Community,
hereinafter referred to as the ‘Member States’, and
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred to as the Community, of the one part, and
THE PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA hereinafter referred to as ‘Algeria’,
of the other part,
CONSIDERING the proximity and interdependence which historic links and common values have established between the
Community, its Member States and Algeria,
CONSIDERING that the Community, its Member States and Algeria wish to strengthen those links and to establish lasting
relations, based on reciprocity, solidarity, partnership and co-development,
CONSIDERING the importance which the Parties attach to the principles of the United Nations Charter, particularly the
observance of human rights and political and economic freedom, which form the very basis of the Association,
CONSCIOUS, on the one hand, of the importance of relations in an overall Euro-Mediterranean context and, on the other,
of the objective of integration between the countries of the Maghreb,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/3
DESIROUS of fully achieving the objectives of the association between them by implementing the relevant provisions of
this Agreement to bring the levels of economic and social development of the Community and Algeria closer to each other,
CONSCIOUS of the importance of this Agreement, which is based on reciprocity of interests, mutual concessions, coop-
eration and dialogue,
DESIROUS of establishing and developing political consultation on bilateral and international issues of mutual interest;
CONSCIOUS that terrorism and international organised crime represent a threat to the fulfilment of the objectives of the
partnership and to stability in the region,
TAKING ACCOUNT of the Community’s willingness to provide Algeria with decisive support in its endeavours to bring
about economic reform and adjustment and social development,
CONSIDERING the commitment of both the Community and Algeria to free trade, in compliance with the rights and obli-
gations arising out of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in its post-Uruguay Round form,
DESIROUS of establishing cooperation sustained by regular dialogue on economic, scientific, technological, social, cultural,
audio-visual and environmental issues in order to achieve better mutual understanding,
CONFIRMING that the provisions of this Agreement that fall within the scope of Part III, Title IV of the Treaty establishing
the European Community bind the United Kingdom and Ireland as separate Contracting Parties, and not as Member States
of the Community, until the United Kingdom or Ireland (as the case may be) notifies Algeria that it has become bound as
part of the Community in accordance with the Protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland annexed to the
Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. The same applies to Denmark, in accor-
dance with the Protocol on the position of Denmark,
CONVINCED that this Agreement provides a suitable framework for the development of a partnership based on private ini-
tiative, and that it will create a climate conducive to economic, trade and investment relations between the Parties, a con-
sideration which offers vital backing for economic restructuring and technological modernisation,
HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
Article 1 Article 2
1. An Association is hereby established between the Commu- Respect for the democratic principles and fundamental human
nity and its Member States of the one part and Algeria of the other rights established by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
part. shall inspire the domestic and international policies of the Parties
and shall constitute an essential element of this Agreement.
2. The aims of this Agreement are to:
TITLE I
— provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue
between the Parties, allowing the development of close rela- POLITICAL DIALOGUE
tions and cooperation in all areas they consider relevant to
such dialogue,
Article 3
— promote trade and the expansion of harmonious economic
and social relations between the Parties and establish the con-
1. A regular political and security dialogue shall be established
ditions for the gradual liberalisation of trade in goods, ser-
between the Parties. It shall help build lasting links of solidarity
vices and capital,
between the partners which will contribute to the prosperity, sta-
bility and security of the Mediterranean region and bring about a
— facilitate human exchanges, particularly in the context of climate of understanding and tolerance between cultures.
administrative procedures,
2. Political dialogue and cooperation are intended in particu-
— encourage integration of the Maghreb countries by promot- lar to:
ing trade and cooperation within the Maghreb group and
between it and the Community and its Member States,
(a) facilitate rapprochement between the Parties through the
development of better mutual understanding and regular
— promote economic, social, cultural and financial cooperation. coordination on international issues of common interest;L 265/4 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(b) enable each party to consider the position and interests of the CHAPTER 1
other;
Industrial products
(c) contribute to consolidating security and stability in the Euro-
Article 7
Mediterranean region;
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating
in the Community and Algeria falling within Chapters 25 to 97
(d) help develop joint initiatives.
of the Combined Nomenclature and of the Algerian Customs tar-
iff with the exception of the products listed in Annex 1.
Article 4
Article 8
Products originating in Algeria shall be imported into the Com-
Political dialogue shall cover all issues of common interest to the
munity free of customs duties and charges having equivalent
Parties, in particular the conditions required to ensure peace, secu-
effect.
rity and regional development through support for cooperation.
Article 9
Article 5
1. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect appli-
cable on import into Algeria of products originating in the Com-
Political dialogue shall be established at regular intervals and munity listed in Annex 2 shall be abolished upon the entry into
whenever necessary, notably: force of this Agreement.
2. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect appli-
(a) at ministerial level, mainly in the framework of the Associa- cable on import into Algeria of the products originating in the
tion Council; Community listed in Annex 3 shall be progressively abolished in
accordance with the following timetable:
(b) at the level of senior officials representing Algeria, on the one — two years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
hand, and the Council Presidency and the Commission on each duty and charge shall be reduced to 80 % of the basic
the other; duty,
— three years after the date of entry into force of this Agree-
(c) taking full advantage of all diplomatic channels including ment each duty and charge shall be reduced to 70 % of the
regular briefings, consultations on the occasion of interna- basic duty,
tional meetings and contacts between diplomatic representa-
tives in third countries;
— four years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 60 % of the basic
duty,
(d) where appropriate, by any other means which would con-
tribute to consolidating dialogue and increasing its
— five years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
effectiveness.
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 40 % of the basic
duty,
TITLE II — six years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 20 % of the basic
FREE MOVEMENT OF GOODS duty.
— seven years after the date of entry into force of this Agree-
ment the remaining duties shall be abolished.
Article 6
3. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect appli-
cable on import into Algeria of the products originating in the
The Community and Algeria shall gradually establish a free-trade
Community other than those listed in Annexes 2 and 3 shall be
area over a transitional period lasting a maximum of 12 years
progressively abolished in accordance with the following
starting from the date of the entry into force of this Agreement in
timetable:
accordance with the following provisions and in conformity with
those of the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and
the other multilateral agreements on trade in goods annexed to — two years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation (WTO), each duty and charge shall be reduced to 90 % of the basic
hereinafter referred to as ‘GATT’. duty,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/5
— three years after the date of entry into force of this Agree- These measures may concern only infant industries, or certain
ment each duty and charge shall be reduced to 80 % of the sectors undergoing restructuring or facing serious difficulties, par-
basic duty, ticularly where these difficulties produce major social problems.
— four years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 70 % of the basic
Customs duties on imports applicable in Algeria to products
duty,
originating in the Community introduced by these measures may
not exceed 25 % ad valorem and shall maintain an element of pref-
— five years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
erence for products originating in the Community. The total value
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 60 % of the basic
of imports of the products subjected to such measures may not
duty,
exceed 15 % of total imports of industrial products from the
Community during the last year for which statistics are available.
— six years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 50 % of the basic
duty,
These measures shall be applied for a period not exceeding five
— seven years after the date of entry into force of this Agree- years unless a longer duration is authorised by the Association
ment each duty and charge shall be reduced to 40 % of the Committee. They shall cease to apply at the latest on expiry of the
basic duty, maximum transitional period referred to in Article 6.
— eight years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 30 % of the basic
No such measures may be introduced in respect of a product if
duty,
more than three years have elapsed since the elimination of all
duties and quantitative restrictions or charges or measures hav-
— nine years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement
ing equivalent effect concerning that product.
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 20 % of the basic
duty,
— 10 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement Algeria shall inform the Association Committee of any excep-
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 10 % of the basic tional measures it intends to take and, at the request of the Com-
duty, munity, consultations shall be held on such measures and the
sectors to which they apply before they are implemented. When
— 11 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement adopting such measures, Algeria shall provide the Association
each duty and charge shall be reduced to 5 % of the basic Committee with a schedule for the abolition of the customs duties
duty, introduced pursuant to this Article. Such schedule shall provide
for the phasing-out of the duties concerned by equal annual
— 12 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement instalments, starting no later than the end of the second year fol-
the remaining duties shall be abolished. lowing their introduction. The Association Committee may decide
on a different schedule.
4. In the event of serious difficulties for a given product, the
timetables established in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 may
be reviewed by the Association Committee by common accord on
2. By way of derogation from the fourth subparagraph of para-
the understanding that the schedule for which the review has been
graph 1, the Association Committee may exceptionally, in order
requested may not be extended in respect of the product con-
to take account of the difficulties involved in setting up a new
cerned beyond the maximum transitional period referred to in
industry, authorise Algeria to maintain the measures already taken
Article 6. If the Association Committee has not taken a decision
pursuant to paragraph 1 for a maximum period of three years
within 30 days of its application to review the timetable, Algeria
beyond the transitional period referred to in Article 6.
may suspend the timetable provisionally for a period which may
not exceed one year.
5. For each product concerned, the basic duty to be gradually
reduced as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be the rates CHAPTER 2
referred to in Article 18.
Agricultural, fisheries and processed
agricultural products
Article 10
The provisions concerning the abolition of customs duties on
imports shall also apply to customs duties of a fiscal nature. Article 12
Article 11
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating
1. Exceptional measures of limited duration which derogate in the Community and Algeria falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of
from the provisions of Article 9 may be taken by Algeria in the the Combined Nomenclature and of the Algerian Customs tariff
form of an increase or reintroduction of customs duties. and to the products listed in Annex 1.L 265/6 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 13 2. The Party carrying out such modification shall inform the
Association Committee thereof. At the request of the other Party,
the Association Committee shall meet to take due account of the
The Community and Algeria shall progressively establish a greater interests of the other Party.
liberalisation of their reciprocal trade in agricultural, fisheries and
processed agricultural products of interest to both Parties.
3. If the Community or Algeria, in applying paragraph 1,
modifies the arrangements made by this Agreement for agricul-
tural products, they shall accord imports originating in the other
Article 14
Party an advantage comparable to that provided for in this
Agreement.
1. Agricultural products originating in Algeria listed in Proto-
col No 1 on importation into the Community shall be subject to
the arrangements set out in that Protocol. 4. Any modification of the arrangements made by this Agree-
ment shall be the subject, at the request of the other Contracting
Party, of consultations within the Association Council.
2. Agricultural products originating in the Community listed
in Protocol No 2 on importation into Algeria shall be subject to
the arrangements set out in that Protocol.
CHAPTER 3
3. Fisheries products originating in Algeria listed in Protocol Common provisions
No 3 on importation into the Community shall be subject to the
arrangements set out in that Protocol.
Article 17
4. Fisheries products originating in the Community listed in
Protocol No 4 on importation into Algeria shall be subject to the
arrangements set out in that Protocol.
1. No new customs duties on imports or exports or charges
having equivalent effect shall be introduced in trade between the
Community and Algeria, nor shall those already applied upon
5. Trade in processed agricultural products falling under this
entry into force of this Agreement be increased.
Chapter shall be subject to the arrangements set out in Protocol
No 5.
2. No new quantitative restriction on imports or exports or
measure having equivalent effect shall be introduced in trade
Article 15 between the Community and Algeria.
1. Five years after the entry into force of this Agreement, the
3. Quantitative restrictions on imports or exports and mea-
Community and Algeria shall assess the situation in order to
sures having equivalent effect in trade between Algeria and the
determine the liberalisation measures to be applied by the Com-
Community shall be abolished upon the entry into force of this
munity and Algeria six years after the entry into force of the
Agreement.
Agreement, in accordance with the objective set out in Article 13.
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 and tak- 4. Algeria shall abolish by 1 January 2006 at the latest the pro-
ing account of the patterns of trade in agricultural products, fish- visional additional duty applied to the products listed in
eries products and processed agricultural products between the Annex 4. That duty shall be reduced on a linear basis by 12 points
Parties and the particular sensitivity of such products, the Com- per year starting on 1 January 2002.
munity and Algeria shall examine in the Association Council,
product by product and on a reciprocal basis, the possibilities of
granting each other further concessions. If Algeria’s commitments in respect of its accession to the WTO
provide for a shorter period for the abolition of the provisional
additional duty, that shorter period shall be applicable.
Article 16
Article 18
1. Should specific rules be introduced as a result of implemen-
tation of their agricultural policies or modification of their exist-
ing rules, or should the provisions on the implementation of their
agricultural policies be modified or developed, the Community 1. For each product concerned, the basic duty to be reduced as
and Algeria may modify the arrangements laid down in this provided in Articles 9(2) and (3) and 14 shall be the rate actually
Agreement in respect of the products concerned. applied vis-à-vis the Community on 1 January 2002.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/7
2. In the event of Algerian accession to the WTO, the appli- Article 22
cable rates for imports between the Parties shall be the WTO
bound rate or lower applied rate enforced as of accession. If, after
accession to the WTO, a tariff reduction is applied on an erga If one of the Parties finds that dumping is taking place in trade
omnes basis, the reduced rate shall apply. with the other Party within the meaning of Article VI of GATT
1994, it may take appropriate measures against this practice in
accordance with the WTO Agreement on the Implementation of
Article VI of GATT 1994, related internal legislation and the pro-
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply to any tariff
cedures laid down in Article 26.
reduction applied erga omnes introduced after the date on which
the negotiations are concluded.
Article 23
4. The Parties shall communicate to each other their respec-
tive basic rates applied on 1 January 2002.
The WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
shall be applicable between the Parties.
Article 19
If one of the Parties finds that subsidies are being used in trade
with the other Party within the meaning of Articles VI and XVI of
Products originating in Algeria shall not enjoy more favourable GATT 1994, it may take appropriate measures against this prac-
treatment when imported into the Community than that applied tice in accordance with the WTO Agreement on Subsidies
by Member States among themselves. and Countervailing Measures and its own legislation on the
matter.
The provisions of this Agreement shall apply without prejudice to
the provisions of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1911/91 of Article 24
26 June 1991 on the application of the provisions of Commu-
nity law to the Canary Islands (OJ L 171, 29.6.1991, p. 1), as last
amended by Regulation (EC) No 1105/2001 (OJ L 151, 7.6.2001, 1. Except where otherwise stated in this Article, the provisions
p. 1). of Article XIX of GATT 1994 and of the WTO Agreement on
Safeguards are applicable between the Parties.
Article 20 2. Each Party shall inform the Association Committee forth-
with of any step that it takes or intends to take with regard to the
application of safeguard measures. Each Party shall send the Asso-
1. Both Parties shall refrain from any measure or practice of an ciation Committee, immediately or at least one week in advance,
internal fiscal nature establishing, whether directly or indirectly, a communication in writing containing all information pertinent
discrimination between the products of one Party and like prod- to:
ucts originating in the territory of the other Party.
— the opening of a safeguard investigation,
2. Products exported to the territory of one of the Parties may
not benefit from repayment of indirect internal taxation in excess
— the outcome of the investigation.
of the amount of indirect taxation imposed on them directly
or indirectly.
The information provided shall include an explanation of the pro-
cedure on which the investigation is based and details of the
schedule of hearings and other suitable occasions for the parties
Article 21
concerned to submit their opinions.
1. This Agreement shall not preclude the maintenance or
Each Party shall also give the Association Committee an advance
establishment of customs unions, free trade areas or arrangements
written notification containing all relevant information about the
for frontier trade insofar as they do not have the effect of altering
decision to apply provisional safeguard measures; this notification
the trade arrangements provided for in this Agreement.
must be received at least one week before the measures are
applied.
2. Consultation between the Parties shall take place within the
Association Committee concerning agreements establishing cus- 3. On being notified of the final results of the investigation and
toms unions or free trade areas and, where requested, on other before applying safeguard measures in accordance with
major issues related to their respective trade policies with third Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safe-
countries. In particular in the event of a third country acceding to guards, the Party intending to apply such measures shall refer the
the Community, such consultations shall take place so as to matter to the Association Committee for a thorough examination
ensure that account is taken of the mutual interests of the Com- of the situation with a view to finding a mutually acceptable
munity and Algeria stated in this Agreement. solution.L 265/8 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
4. In order to find such a solution, the Parties shall immedi- Article 26
ately hold consultations within the Association Committee. If the
Parties fail to reach an agreement within 30 days of the initiation
of such consultations on a solution to avoid the application of the 1. In the event of the Community or Algeria subjecting imports
safeguard measures, the Party intending to apply safeguard mea- of products liable to give rise to the difficulties referred to in
sures may apply the provisions of Article XIX of GATT 1994 and Article 24 to an administrative procedure having as its purpose
of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards. the rapid supply of information on trade flow trends, it shall
inform the other Party.
5. In the selection of safeguard measures pursuant to this
In the cases specified in Articles 22 and 25, before taking the mea-
Article, the Parties shall give priority to those which cause least
sures provided for therein or, in cases to which paragraph 2(c) of
disturbance to the achievement of the objectives of this Agree-
this Article applies, as soon as possible, the Community or Alge-
ment. Such measures shall not go beyond what is necessary to
ria, as the case may be, shall supply the Association Committee
remedy the difficulties arising and shall maintain the level or mar-
with all relevant information with a view to seeking a solution
gin of preference granted pursuant to this Agreement.
acceptable to the two Parties.
6. The Party intending to apply safeguard measures pursuant In the selection of measures, priority shall be given to those which
to this Article shall offer the other Party compensation in the form least disturb the functioning of this Agreement.
of liberalisation of trade vis-à-vis imports from the latter; that
compensation will be essentially equivalent to the adverse trade
effects of the measures on the other Party with effect from the 2. For the implementation of the second subparagraph of
date of their implementation. The offer shall be made before the paragraph 1, the following provisions shall apply:
safeguard measure is adopted and concurrently with the notifica-
tion of and referral to the Association Committee, in accordance
(a) as regards Article 22, the exporting Party shall be informed
with paragraph 3. If the Party whose product is the intended sub-
of the dumping case as soon as the authorities of the import-
ject of the safeguard measure considers the offer of compensation
ing Party have initiated an investigation. When no end has
unsatisfactory, the two Parties may agree to other forms of trade
been put to the dumping within the meaning of Article VI of
compensation in the framework of the consultations referred to in
GATT 1994 or no other satisfactory solution has been
paragraph 3.
reached within 30 days of the matter being referred, the
importing Party may adopt the appropriate measures;
7. If the Parties fail to agree on the matter of compensation
within 30 days of the initiation of the above consultations, the (b) as regards Article 25, the difficulties arising from the situa-
Party whose product is the subject of safeguard measures may tions referred to in that Article shall be referred for examina-
adopt compensatory tariff measures having trade effects essen- tion to the Association Committee.
tially equivalent to the safeguard measure adopted pursuant to
this Article.
The Association Committee may take any decision needed to
put an end to the difficulties. If it has not taken such a deci-
sion within 30 days of the matter being referred to it, the
Article 25 exporting party may apply appropriate measures on the
exportation of the product concerned;
Where compliance with the provisions of Article 17(3) leads to:
(c) where exceptional circumstances requiring immediate action
make prior information or examination, as the case may be,
impossible, the Community or Algeria, whichever is con-
(i) re-export towards a third country against which the export-
cerned, may, in the situations specified in Articles 22 and 25,
ing party maintains, for the product concerned, quantitative
apply forthwith the precautionary measures strictly necessary
export restrictions, export duties, or measures having equiva-
to deal with the situation and shall inform the other Party
lent effect,
immediately thereof.
or
Article 27
(ii) a serious shortage, or threat thereof, of a product essential to Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude prohibitions or restric-
the exporting party; tions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds
of public morality, public policy or public security, of the protec-
tion of health and life of humans, animals or plants, of the pro-
and where the situations referred to above give rise, or are likely tection of national treasures possessing artistic, historic or
to give rise, to major difficulties for the exporting Party, that Party archaeological value, of the protection of intellectual, industrial
may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accor- and commercial property or of regulations concerning gold and
dance with the procedures laid down in Article 26. The measures silver. Such prohibitions or restrictions shall not, however, con-
shall be non-discriminatory and shall be abolished when condi- stitute a means of arbitrary discrimination or a disguised restric-
tions no longer justify their maintenance. tion on trade between the Parties.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/9
Article 28 Article 32
Commercial presence
The concept of ‘originating products’ for the application of the
provisions of the present Title and the methods of administrative 1. (a) Algeria shall grant for the establishment of Community
cooperation relating to them are set out in Protocol No 6. companies in its territory treatment no less favourable
than that accorded to companies of any third country;
Article 29 (b) Algeria shall grant to subsidiaries and branches of Com-
munity companies, established in its territory in accor-
dance with its legislation, in respect of their operations,
The Combined Nomenclature of goods shall be applied to the treatment no less favourable than that accorded to its
classification of goods for imports into the Community. The Alge- own companies or branches, or to Algerian subsidiar-
rian customs tariff shall be applied to the classification of goods ies or branches of companies of any third country,
for imports into Algeria. whichever is the better.
2. The treatment referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (b) shall be
granted to companies, subsidiaries and branches established in
TITLE III
Algeria on the date of entry into force of this Agreement and
to companies, subsidiaries and branches established there after
TRADE IN SERVICES
that date.
Article 30
Article 33
Reciprocal commitments
Temporary presence of natural persons
1. The European Community and its Member States shall 1. A Community company or Algerian company established
extend to Algeria the treatment which they are obliged to grant in the territory of Algeria or the Community respectively shall be
under Article II. I of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, entitled to temporarily employ, or have temporarily employed by
hereinafter referred to as GATS. one of its subsidiaries or branches, in accordance with the legis-
lation in force in the host country of establishment, employees
who are nationals of Community Member States and Algeria
respectively, provided that such employees are key personnel as
2. The European Community and its Member States shall grant
defined in paragraph 2, and that they are employed exclusively by
to Algerian service suppliers no less favourable treatment than
such companies, subsidiaries or branches. The residence and work
that accorded to like service suppliers as specified in the schedule
permits of such employees shall only cover the period of such
of specific commitments taken by the European Community
employment.
and its Member States under the GATS to which it is annexed.
2. Key personnel of the abovementioned companies herein
3. This treatment shall not apply to advantages accorded by referred to as ‘organisations’ are ‘intra-corporate transferees’ as
either Party under the terms of an agreement of the type defined defined in (c) in the following categories, provided that the organi-
in Article V of the GATS or to measures taken on the basis of such sation is a legal person and that the persons concerned have been
an agreement and to other advantages granted in accordance with employed by it or have been partners in it (other than as majority
the list of most-favoured-nation exemptions annexed by the Euro- shareholders), for at least the 12 months immediately preceding
pean Community and its Member States to the GATS. such movement:
(a) persons working in a senior position with an organisation,
4. Algeria shall grant no less favourable treatment to service
who primarily direct the management of the establishment,
suppliers of the European Community and its Member States than
receiving general supervision or direction principally from
that specified in Articles 31 to 33.
the board of directors or stockholders of the business or their
equivalent, including:
Article 31
— directing the establishment or a department or sub-
Cross-border supply of services division of the establishment,
— supervising and controlling the work of other supervi-
With regard to the supply of services by Community service sup-
sory, professional or managerial employees,
pliers into the territory of Algeria, other than through a commer-
cial presence or the presence of natural persons, as referred to in
Articles 32 and 33, Algeria shall grant treatment to Community — having the authority personally to recruit and dismiss or
service suppliers no less favourable than that accorded to compa- recommend recruiting, dismissing or other personnel
nies of any third country. actions,L 265/10 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(b) persons working within an organisation who possess uncom- (b) purchase and use, on their own account or on behalf of their
mon knowledge essential to the establishment’s service, customer (and the resale to their customers), of any transport
research equipment, techniques or management. The assess- and related services, including inward transport services by
ment of such knowledge may reflect, apart from knowledge any mode, particularly inland waterways, road and rail, nec-
specific to the establishment, a high level of qualification essary for the supply of an integrated service;
referring to a type of work or trade requiring specific techni-
cal knowledge, including membership of an accredited
profession, (c) preparation of transport documents, customs documents, or
other documents related to the origin and character of the
goods transported;
(c) an ‘intra-corporate transferee’ is defined as a natural person
working within an organisation in the territory of a Party,
and being temporarily transferred in the context of pursuit of
(d) provision of business information of any means, including
economic activities in the territory of the other Party; the
computerised information systems and electronic data inter-
organisation concerned must have its principal place of busi-
change (subject to any non-discriminatory restrictions con-
ness in the territory of a Party and the transfer be to an estab-
cerning telecommunications);
lishment (branch, subsidiary) of that organisation, effectively
pursuing like economic activities in the territory of the other
Party.
(e) setting up of any business arrangement, including participa-
tion in the company’s stock and the appointment of person-
3. The entry into and the temporary presence within the nel recruited locally (or, in the case of foreign personnel,
respective territories of Algeria and the Community of nationals subject to the relevant provisions of this Agreement), with
of the Member States or of Algeria respectively shall be permitted any locally established shipping agency;
when these representatives of companies are persons working in
a senior position, as defined in paragraph 2(a), within a company,
and are responsible for the establishment of an Algerian or a (f) acting on behalf of the companies, organising the call of the
Community company, in the Community or Algeria respectively, ship or taking over cargoes when required.
when:
3. With respect to maritime transport, the Parties undertake to
— those representatives are not engaged in making direct sales
apply effectively the principle of unrestricted access to the inter-
or supplying services, and
national market and traffic on a commercial basis.
— the company has no other representative, office, branch or
subsidiary in a Community Member State or Algeria However, the legislation of each Party shall apply to the prefer-
respectively. ential right of the national flag for national cabotage and for sal-
vage, towage and pilotage.
Article 34
These provisions do not prejudice the rights and obligations aris-
Transport ing under the United Nations Convention on a Code of Conduct
for Liner Conferences, as applicable for either Party to this Agree-
ment. Non-conference lines shall be free to operate in competi-
1. Articles 30 to 33 shall not apply to air, inland waterway or tion with a conference line as long as they adhere to the principle
land transport or to national shipping (cabotage), subject to the of fair competition on a commercial basis.
provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article.
The Parties affirm their commitment to a freely competitive envi-
2. In respect of activities undertaken by shipping agencies for
ronment as being an essential feature of the dry and liquid bulk
the provision of international maritime transport services, includ-
trade.
ing inter-modal activities involving a sea leg, each Party shall per-
mit to the companies of the other Party their commercial presence
in its territory in the form of subsidiaries or branches, under con-
ditions of establishment and operation no less favourable than 4. In applying the principles of paragraph 3 above, the Parties
shall:
those accorded to its own companies or to subsidiaries or
branches of companies of any third country, whichever are the
better. Such activities include, but are not limited to:
(a) not introduce cargo-sharing arrangements in future bilateral
Agreements with third countries concerning dry and liquid
(a) marketing and sales of maritime transport and related ser- bulk and liner trade. However, this does not exclude the pos-
vices through direct contact with customers, from quotation sibility of such arrangements concerning liner cargo in those
to invoicing, whether these services are operated or offered exceptional circumstances where liner shipping companies
by the service supplier itself or by service suppliers with from one or other Party to this Agreement would not other-
which the service seller has established standing business wise have an effective opportunity to ply for trade to and
arrangements; from the third country concerned;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/11
(b) abolish, upon entry into force of this Agreement, all unilat- 5. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a
eral measures, administrative, technical and other obstacles Party to disclose information relating to the affairs and accounts
which could constitute a disguised restriction or have dis- of individual customers or any confidential or proprietary infor-
criminatory effects on the free supply of services in interna- mation in the possession of public entities.
tional maritime transport.
6. For the purpose of the movement of natural persons sup-
5. Each Party shall grant, inter alia, a treatment no less favour- plying a service, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the Par-
able than that accorded to its own ships, for the ships used for the ties from applying their laws and regulations regarding entry and
transport of goods, passengers or both, sailing under the flag of stay, work, labour conditions and establishment of natural per-
the other Party or operated by its nationals or companies, with sons and supply of services, provided that, in so doing, they do
respect to access to ports, the use of infrastructure and auxiliary not apply them in a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits
maritime services of those ports, as well as related fees accruing to any Party under the terms of a specific provision of
and charges, customs facilities and the assignment of berths and the Agreement. The above provision does not prejudice the appli-
facilities for loading and unloading. cation of paragraph 2.
6. With a view to coordinated development of transport
Article 36
between the Parties, adapted to their commercial needs, the con-
ditions of mutual market access and provision of air, road, rail Definitions
and inland waterway transport services may be dealt with by spe-
cific arrangements, where appropriate, negotiated between the
Parties after the entry into force of this Agreement.
For the purposes of this Agreement:
(a) a ‘service supplier’ shall mean any natural or legal person
Article 35
who supplies a service from the territory of one Party into the
Domestic regulation territory of the other Party, in the territory of one Party to the
service consumer of the other Party, through commercial
presence (establishment) in the territory of the other Party
and through the presence of a natural person of a Party in the
1. The provisions of Title III shall not prejudice the application territory of the other Party;
by each Party of any measures necessary to prevent the circum-
vention of its measures concerning third country access to its
market, through the provisions of this Agreement.
(b) a ‘Community company’ or ‘Algerian company’ respectively
shall mean a company set up in accordance with the laws of
a Member State or of Algeria respectively and having its reg-
2. The provisions of this Title shall be applied subject to limi- istered office or central administration or principal place of
tations justified on grounds of public policy, public security or business in the territory of the Community or Algeria
public health. They shall not apply to activities which in the ter- respectively.
ritory of either Party are connected, even occasionally, with the
exercise of official authority.
However, should the company, set up in accordance with the
laws of a Member State or Algeria respectively, have only its
3. The provisions of this title do not preclude the application registered office in the territory of the Community or Algeria
by a Party of particular rules concerning the establishment and respectively, the company shall be considered a Community
operation in its territory of branches of companies of another or Algerian company respectively if its operations possess a
Party not incorporated in the territory of the first Party, which are real and continuous link with the economy of one of the
justified by legal or technical differences between such branches Member States or Algeria respectively;
as compared to branches of companies incorporated in its terri-
tory or, as regards financial services, for prudential reasons. The
difference in treatment shall not go beyond what is strictly nec- (c) ‘subsidiary’ of a company shall mean a company which is
essary as a result of such legal or technical differences or, as controlled by the first company;
regards financial services, for prudential reasons.
(d) ‘branch’ of a company shall mean a place of business not hav-
4. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a ing legal personality which has the appearance of perma-
Party shall not be prevented from taking measures for prudential nency, such as the extension of a parent body, has a
reasons, including for the protection of investors, depositors, management and is materially equipped to negotiate business
policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a with third parties so that the latter, although knowing that
financial service supplier, or to ensure the integrity and stability there will, if necessary, be a legal link with the parent body,
of the financial system. Where such measures do not conform the head office of which is abroad, do not have to deal directly
with the provisions of the Agreement, they shall not be used as a with such parent body but may transact business at the place
means of avoiding the obligations of a Party under the Agreement. of business constituting the extension;L 265/12 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(e) ‘establishment’ shall mean the right of Community or Alge- TITLE IV
rian companies as referred to in subparagraph (b) to take up
PAYMENTS, CAPITAL, COMPETITION AND OTHER
economic activities by means of the setting-up of subsidiar-
ECONOMIC PROVISIONS
ies and branches in Algeria or in the Community respectively;
CHAPTER 1
Current payments and movement of capital
(f) ‘operation’ shall mean the pursuit of economic activities;
Article 38
(g) ‘economic activities’ shall mean activities of an industrial,
commercial and professional character; Subject to the provisions of Article 40, the Parties undertake to
allow all current payments for current transactions to be made in
a freely convertible currency.
(h) ‘national of a Member State or of Algeria’ shall mean a natu-
Article 39
ral person who is a national of one of the Member States or
of Algeria respectively.
1. The Community and Algeria shall ensure, from the entry
into force of the Agreement, that capital relating to direct invest-
ments in Algeria in companies formed in accordance with cur-
rent laws can move freely and that the yield from such investments
With regard to international maritime transport, including inter-
and any profit stemming therefrom can be liquidated and
modal operations involving a sea leg, nationals of the Member
repatriated.
States or of Algeria established outside the Community or Alge-
ria respectively, and shipping companies established outside the
Community or Algeria and controlled by nationals of a Member 2. The Parties shall consult each other and cooperate with a
State or Algerian nationals respectively, shall also be subject to the view to establishing the necessary conditions for facilitating and
provisions of this Title if their vessels are registered in that Mem- fully liberalising the movement of capital between the Commu-
ber State or in Algeria respectively in accordance with their nity and Algeria.
respective legislations.
Article 40
Where one or more Member States of the Community, or Alge-
Article 37
ria, is in serious balance of payments difficulties, or under threat
General provisions thereof, the Community or Algeria, as the case may be, may, in
accordance with the conditions established under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and Articles VIII and XIV of the
Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, adopt
restrictions on current transactions which shall be of limited dura-
1. The Parties shall avoid taking any measures or actions which tion and may not go beyond what is strictly necessary to remedy
render the conditions for the establishment and operation of each the balance of payments situation. The Community or Algeria, as
other’s companies more restrictive than the situation existing on the case may be, shall inform the other Party forthwith and shall
the day preceding the date of signature of this Agreement. submit to it as soon as possible a timetable for the abolition of the
measures concerned.
CHAPTER 2
2. The Parties undertake to consider development of this Title
with a view to the establishment of an ‘economic integration
Competition and other economic matters
agreement’ as defined in Article V of GATS. In making such rec-
ommendations, the Association Council shall take account of past
experience of implementation of the most-favoured-nation treat-
Article 41
ment and of the obligations of each Party under the GATS, and in
particular Article V thereof.
1. The following are incompatible with the proper function-
ing of the Agreement, insofar as they may affect trade between the
Community and Algeria:
The Association Council shall also, when making such examina-
tion, take into account progress made in the approximation of (a) all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associa-
laws between the Parties in the relevant activities. This objective tions of undertakings and concerted practices between under-
shall be subject to a first examination by the Association Council takings which have as their object or effect the prevention,
at the latest five years after the entry into force of this Agreement. restriction or distortion of competition;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/13
(b) abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position Article 45
in:
The Parties undertake to adopt appropriate measures to ensure
— the whole of the territory of the Community or in a sub-
the protection of personal data in order to eliminate barriers to
stantial part thereof,
the free movement of such data between the Parties.
— the whole of the territory of Algeria or in a substantial
part thereof.
Article 46
2. The Parties shall ensure administrative cooperation in the
1. The Parties shall set as their objective a reciprocal and
implementation of their respective competition legislations and
gradual liberalisation of public procurement contracts.
exchange information taking into account the limitations
imposed by the requirements of professional and business secrecy
in accordance with the procedures laid down in Annex 5 to this
2. The Association Council shall take the steps necessary
Agreement.
to implement paragraph 1.
3. If the Community or Algeria considers that a particular
practice is incompatible with the terms of paragraph 1, and if
TITLE V
such practice causes or threatens to cause serious prejudice to the
interest of the other Party, it may take appropriate measures after
ECONOMIC COOPERATION
consultation within the Association Committee or after 30 work-
ing days following referral for such consultation.
Article 47
Article 42 Objectives
The Member States and Algeria shall progressively adjust, with-
1. The Parties undertake to step up economic cooperation in
out prejudice to their commitments to the GATT, any State
their mutual interest and in the spirit of partnership which is at
monopolies of a commercial character, so as to ensure that, by the
the root of this Agreement.
end of the fifth year following the entry into force of this Agree-
ment, no discrimination regarding the conditions under which
goods are procured and marketed exists between nationals of the
2. The objective of economic cooperation shall be to support
Member States and Algeria. The Association Committee will be
Algeria’s own efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social
informed about the measures adopted to implement this
development.
objective.
3. Such economic cooperation is in keeping with the objec-
Article 43 tives set out in the Barcelona Declaration.
With regard to public enterprises and enterprises which have been
granted special or exclusive rights, the Association Council shall Article 48
ensure, from the fifth year following the entry into force of this
Agreement, that no measure which disturbs trade between the Scope
Community and Algeria in a manner which runs counter to the
interests of the Parties is adopted or maintained. This provision
should not obstruct the performance in law or in fact of the par- 1. Cooperation will be targeted first and foremost at areas of
ticular tasks assigned to these enterprises. activity suffering the effects of internal constraints and difficulties
or affected by the process of liberalising Algeria’s economy as a
whole, and more particularly by the liberalisation of trade between
Algeria and the Community.
Article 44
2. Similarly, cooperation shall focus on areas likely to bring
1. The Parties shall provide suitable and effective protection of
the economies of the Community and Algeria closer together,
intellectual, industrial and commercial property rights, in line
particularly those which will generate growth and employment,
with the highest international standards. This shall encompass
and foster the development of trade flows between Algeria and
effective means of enforcing such rights.
the Community, notably by encouraging the diversification of
Algerian exports.
2. Implementation of this Article and of Annex 6 shall be
regularly assessed by the Parties. If difficulties which affect trade
arise in connection with intellectual, industrial and commercial 3. Cooperation shall foster economic integration within the
property rights, either Party may request urgent consultations to Maghreb group of countries using any measures likely to further
find mutually satisfactory solutions. such relations within the region.L 265/14 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
4. Preservation of the environment and ecological balances (g) customs matters;
shall constitute a central component of the various fields of eco-
nomic cooperation.
(h) regional institutions and the establishment of common or
harmonised programmes and policies.
5. The Parties may determine by agreement other fields of eco-
nomic cooperation.
Article 51
Scientific, technical and technological cooperation
Article 49
Methods Cooperation shall be aimed at:
Economic cooperation shall be implemented in particular by: (a) encouraging the establishment of permanent links between
the Parties’ scientific communities, notably by means of:
(a) regular economic dialogue between the Parties covering all
— the access of Algeria to Community technological
areas of macro-economic policy;
research and development programmes, in conformity
with Community provisions concerning the participa-
tion of third countries in those programmes;
(b) communication and exchanges of information;
— the participation of Algeria in decentralised cooperation
(c) transfer of advice, expertise and training; networks;
(d) implementation of joint actions; — the promotion of synergy between training and research;
(b) strengthening research capacity in Algeria;
(e) technical, administrative and regulatory assistance;
(c) stimulating technological innovation, the transfer of new
(f) measures to support partnerships and direct investment by
technologies and know-how, implementation of technologi-
operators, in particular private operators, and privatisation
cal research and development projects and optimisation of
programmes.
the results of scientific and technical research;
(d) encouraging all activities aimed at establishing synergy at
Article 50
regional level.
Regional Cooperation
Article 52
In order to maximise the impact of this Agreement vis-à-vis the
development of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and within Environment
the countries of the Maghreb, the Parties shall foster all activities
which have a regional impact or involve third countries, notably:
1. The Parties shall encourage cooperation in preventing dete-
rioration of the environment, controlling pollution and ensuring
the rational use of natural resources, with a view to ensuring sus-
(a) economic integration;
tainable development and guaranteeing the quality of the environ-
ment and the protection of public health.
(b) development of economic infrastructure;
2. Cooperation shall in particular focus on:
(c) environmental matters;
— issues related to desertification,
(d) scientific and technological research;
— rational water resource management,
(e) education, teaching and training;
— salinisation,
(f) cultural matters; — the impact of agriculture on soil and water quality,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/15
— the appropriate use of energy and transport, (h) contributing to the development of exports of Algerian
manufactures.
— the impact of industrial development on the environment, in
particular the safety of industrial plant,
Article 54
Promotion and protection of investments
— waste management, in particular toxic waste,
The aim of cooperation shall be to create a favourable climate for
— the integrated management of sensitive areas, investment flows, in particular by means of the following:
— the control and prevention of urban, industrial and marine (a) the establishment of harmonised and simplified procedures,
pollution, co-investment machinery (especially to link small and
medium-sized enterprises) and methods of identifying and
providing information on investment opportunities;
— use of advanced environmental management and monitor-
ing tools, particularly environmental information and statis-
tical systems, (b) a legal environment conducive to investment between the
two Parties, where appropriate through the conclusion by the
Member States and Algeria of investment protection agree-
— technical assistance, in particular for the preservation of ments, and agreements to prevent double taxation;
bio-diversity.
(c) technical assistance to schemes to promote and guarantee
national and foreign investments.
Article 53
Industrial cooperation
Article 55
Cooperation shall be aimed at: Standardisation and conformity assessment
(a) encouraging or supporting measures designed to promote Cooperation shall aim at reducing divergences in standardisation
direct investment and industrial partnership ventures in and certification.
Algeria;
Cooperation shall be realised in particular through:
(b) encouraging direct cooperation between the Parties’ eco-
nomic operators, including cooperation in the context of
access for Algeria to Community business networks and — encouraging the use of European standards and conformity
decentralised cooperation networks; assessment procedures and techniques;
(c) backing the effort to modernise and restructure Algeria’s — upgrading Algerian conformity assessment and metrology
public and private sector industry (including the agri-food bodies and helping to establish the necessary conditions for
industry); the eventual negotiation of mutual recognition agreements in
these fields;
(d) fostering the development of small- and medium-sized
enterprises; — cooperation in the area of quality management;
(e) fostering an environment which favours private initiative, — providing assistance to the Algerian bodies responsible for
with the aim of stimulating and diversifying output for the intellectual, industrial and commercial property and for stan-
domestic and export markets; dardisation and quality.
(f) making the most of Algeria’s human resources and industrial
Article 56
potential through better use of policy in the fields of innova-
tion and research and technological development; Approximation of laws
(g) supporting the restructuring of industry and the industrial Cooperation shall be aimed at helping Algeria to bring its legis-
upgrading programme with a view to the creation of the free lation closer to that of the Community in the areas covered by this
trade area so as to make products more competitive; Agreement.L 265/16 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 57 — the evaluation and rational management of fish stocks,
Financial services
— support for research programmes.
Cooperation shall be aimed at the improvement and development
of financial services.
Article 59
This will basically involve:
Transport
— the exchange of information concerning financial regulations
and practices and training schemes, in particular with a view The aims of cooperation shall be:
to the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises;
— to support the restructuring and modernisation of transport,
— support for the reform of Algeria’s banking and financial sys-
tem, including development of the stock market.
— to improve the movement of passengers and goods,
Article 58
— the establishment and enforcement of operating standards
Agriculture and fisheries
comparable to those prevailing in the Community.
Cooperation shall be aimed at the modernisation and restructur-
ing, where necessary, of the agriculture, forestry and fisheries The priority areas of cooperation shall be:
sectors.
— road transport, including the gradual improvement of transit,
It shall in particular be aimed at:
— support for policies geared to developing and diversifying — the management of railways, airports and ports and coopera-
production, tion between the relevant national authorities,
— food security, — modernisation of road, rail, port and airport infrastructure on
major trans-European routes of mutual interest and routes of
regional interest, and navigation aids,
— integrated rural development, including improvement of
basic services and development of ancillary economic
activities,
— upgrading of technical equipment to bring it up to Commu-
nity standards for road/rail t ransport, inter-modal transport,
containerisation and transhipment,
— promoting environmentally-friendly forms of agriculture and
fisheries,
— technical assistance and training.
— the evaluation and rational management of natural resources,
— establishing closer relations, on a voluntary basis, between Article 60
enterprises, groupings and professional organisations repre-
senting the agricultural, fisheries and agri-business sectors, Information society and telecommunications
— technical assistance and training, Cooperation in this field shall focus in particular on:
— harmonising phytosanitary and veterinary standards
— a dialogue on issues related to the different aspects of the
and checks,
information society, including telecommunications policies,
— cooperation between rural areas, exchange of experience and
know-how on rural development, — the exchange of information and provision of any technical
assistance required on regulations and standardisation, con-
formity testing and certification of information and commu-
— support for privatisation, nication technologies,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/17
— the dissemination of advanced information and telecommu- — production of equipment and services used in the pro-
nication technologies, including satellite technology duction of energy products,
and information services and technologies,
— developing and transforming the potential of mining,
— the promotion and implementation of joint projects for
research, technical development or industrial applications in
information technologies, communications, telematics — development of gas, oil and electricity distribution,
and information society,
— support for the modernisation and development of energy
— giving Algerian bodies the opportunity to participate in pilot networks and for their linking to European Community
projects and European programmes under the specific networks,
arrangements pertaining to them in the sectors concerned;
— the setting-up of databases on the mining and energy sectors,
— the interconnection and interoperability of Community and
Algerian networks and telematic services,
— the support and promotion of private investment in energy
and mining sector activities,
— technical assistance with the planning and management of
the radio frequency spectrum with a view to coordinated and
effective use of radio communications in the Euro- — the environment, the development of renewable energies and
Mediterranean region. energy efficiency,
— the promotion of technology transfers in the energy and
Article 61 mining sectors.
Energy and mining
Article 62
The aims of cooperation in the energy and mining sectors shall
be: Tourism and the craft sector
(a) institutional, legislative and regulatory upgrading to ensure Cooperation in this field will principally be aimed at:
that activities are regulated and investment promoted;
— stepping up the exchange of information on flows and poli-
(b) technical and technological upgrading to prepare energy and cies on tourism, spa tourism and craft trades,
mining companies for the requirements of the market
economy and competition;
— stepping up hotel administration and management training
schemes and training in other areas of the tourism and craft
(c) the development of partnerships between European and sectors,
Algerian companies in the activities of exploration, produc-
tion, processing, distribution and services in the energy and
mining sectors. — promoting exchanges of experiences with a view to the
smooth and sustainable development of tourism,
The priority areas of cooperation in this respect shall be:
— encouraging youth tourism,
— adaptation of the institutional, legislative and regulatory
framework of activities in the energy and mining sectors to — helping Algeria to develop its potential in the area of tour-
market economy rules by means of technical, administrative ism, spas and crafts and to improve the image of its tourism
and regulatory assistance, products,
— support for efforts to restructure public enterprises in the — supporting privatisation.
energy and mining sectors,
— building partnerships in the areas of, Article 63
Cooperation in customs matters
— oil and gas exploration, production and processing,
1. The aim of cooperation shall be to ensure compliance with
— electricity production, the free trade arrangements. The priority areas shall be:
— distribution of petroleum products, (a) the simplification of customs controls and procedures;L 265/18 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(b) the introduction of a single administrative document similar (h) assistance with the organisation and introduction of a warn-
to the Community’s and a possible link-up between the Com- ing system to be integrated into the European system.
munity and Algerian transit systems.
Technical assistance may be provided where necessary. Article 66
2. Without prejudice to other forms of cooperation envisaged
Given the particularities of the Algerian economy, both Parties
in this Agreement, notably for the fight against drugs and money
shall establish the methods and procedures for implementing the
laundering, the administrative authorities of the Contracting Par-
economic cooperation activities agreed pursuant to this Title in
ties shall provide mutual assistance in accordance with the pro-
order to support the process of modernising the Algerian
visions of Protocol No 7.
economy and the creation of the free trade area.
Article 64 The identification and evaluation of requirements and the proce-
dures for implementing the economic cooperation activities shall
Cooperation in statistics
be examined in a framework to be introduced in accordance with
the conditions laid down in Article 98.
The main objective of cooperation in this sphere should be to
ensure, in particular through the harmonisation of the methods
used by the Parties, the comparability and usefulness of statistics The Parties shall agree on the priorities to be carried out in the
on foreign trade, public finance and balance of payments, popu- abovementioned framework.
lation, migration, transport and communications, and generally
all the fields covered by this Agreement. Technical assistance may
be provided where necessary.
TITLE VI
SOCIAL AND CULTURAL COOPERATION
Article 65
Cooperation on consumer protection
CHAPTER 1
1. The Parties agree that cooperation in this area should be Workers
aimed at making their respective consumer protection systems
compatible.
Article 67
2. Cooperation shall focus mainly on:
1. Each Member State shall accord to workers of Algerian
(a) the exchange of information on legislative activities and
nationality employed in its territory treatment which is free from
exchanges of experts, in particular consumer interest
any discrimination based on nationality, as regards working con-
representatives;
ditions, remuneration and dismissal, relative to its own nationals.
(b) the organisation of seminars and training courses;
2. All Algerian workers allowed to undertake paid employ-
ment in the territory of a Member State on a temporary basis shall
(c) the establishment of permanent systems of mutual informa- be covered by the provisions of paragraph 1 with regard to work-
tion on dangerous products, i.e. those which constitute a ing conditions and remuneration.
hazard to health or consumer safety;
3. Algeria shall accord the same treatment to workers who are
(d) improving information provided to consumers especially on
nationals of a Member State and employed in its territory.
prices, characteristics of products and services offered;
(e) institutional reforms;
Article 68
(f) technical assistance;
1. Subject to the provisions of the following paragraphs, work-
ers of Algerian nationality and any members of their families liv-
(g) the establishment of Algerian laboratories for comparative ing with them shall enjoy, in the field of social security, treatment
analysis and testing and assistance with the introduction of a free from any discrimination based on nationality relative to
decentralised consumer information system; nationals of the Member States in which they are employed.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/19
The term ‘social security’ shall cover the branches of social secu- Article 71
rity dealing with sickness and maternity benefits, invalidity, old-
age and survivors’ benefits, industrial accident and occupational
The provisions adopted by the Association Council in accordance
disease benefits and death, unemployment and family benefits.
with Article 70 shall not affect any rights or obligations arising
from bilateral agreements linking Algeria and the Member States
where those agreements provide for more favourable treatment of
These provisions shall not, however, cause the other coordination nationals of Algeria or of the Member States.
rules provided for in Community legislation based on Article 42
of the Treaty establishing the European Community to apply,
except under the conditions set out in Article 70 of this
CHAPTER 2
Agreement.
Dialogue in social matters
2. All periods of insurance, employment or residence com-
pleted by such workers in the various Member States shall be Article 72
added together for the purpose of pensions and annuities in
respect of old age, invalidity and survivors’ benefits, family, sick-
1. The Parties shall conduct regular dialogue on any social
ness and maternity benefits, and medical care for the workers and
matter which is of interest to them.
for members of their families resident in the Community.
2. Such dialogue shall be used to find ways to achieve progress
in the field of movement of workers and equal treatment and
3. The workers in question shall receive family allowances for
social integration for Algerian and Community nationals residing
members of their families who are resident in the Community.
legally in the territories of their host States.
3. The dialogue shall cover, inter alia, all issues related to:
4. The workers in question shall be able to transfer freely to
Algeria, at the rates applied by virtue of the legislation of the
debtor Member State or States, any pensions or annuities in (a) the living and working conditions of workers and their
respect of old age, survivor status, industrial accident or occupa- dependants;
tional disease, or of invalidity resulting from industrial accident or
occupational disease, except in the case of special non-
contributory benefits. (b) migration;
(c) illegal immigration and the conditions governing the return
5. Algeria shall accord to workers who are nationals of a Mem- of individuals who are in breach of the legislation dealing
ber State and employed in its territory, and to the members of with the right to stay and the right of establishment in the
their families, treatment similar to that specified in paragraphs 1, host State;
3 and 4.
(d) schemes and programmes to encourage equal treatment
between Algerian and Community nationals, mutual knowl-
edge of cultures and civilisations, the furthering of tolerance
Article 69 and the removal of discrimination.
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to nationals of the Par- Article 73
ties residing or working legally in the territory of their host
countries.
Dialogue on social matters shall be conducted at the same levels
and in accordance with the same procedures as provided for in
Title I of this Agreement, which can itself provide a framework for
that dialogue.
Article 70
CHAPTER 3
1. Before the end of the first year following the entry into force
Cooperation in the social field
of this Agreement, the Association Council shall adopt provisions
to implement the principles set out in Article 68.
Article 74
2. The Association Council shall adopt detailed rules for
administrative cooperation providing the necessary management 1. The Parties recognise the importance of social development,
and monitoring guarantees for the application of the provisions which must go hand in hand with economic development. They
referred to in paragraph 1. will give priority to respect for fundamental social rights.L 265/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
2. With a view to consolidating cooperation between the Par- Article 75
ties in the social field, projects and programmes shall be carried
out in any area of interest to them.
Cooperation schemes may be carried out in conjunction with the
Member States and the relevant international organisations.
In this context, the following shall be priority measures:
Article 76
(a) contributing to the improvement of living conditions, job
creation and the development of training in areas from which A working party shall be set up by the Association Council by the
emigrants come; end of the first year following the entry into force of this Agree-
ment. It shall be responsible for the continuous and regular evalu-
ation of the implementation of Chapters 1 to 3.
(b) resettling those repatriated because of their illegal status
under the legislation of the state in question;
CHAPTER 4
Cooperation in the fields of education and culture
(c) productive investment or the creation of businesses in Alge-
ria by Algerian workers legally settled in the Community;
Article 77
(d) promoting the role of women in the economic and social
development process through education and the media, in
This Agreement shall aim to promote the exchange of informa-
keeping with Algerian policy;
tion and cultural cooperation, taking account of bilateral schemes
in the Member States.
(e) bolstering Algerian family planning and mother and child
Greater knowledge and better mutual understanding of the
protection programmes;
respective cultures will be promoted.
(f) improving the social welfare and health systems; Special attention must be paid to promoting joint activities in
various fields, including the press, cinema and television, and to
encouraging youth exchange schemes.
(g) implementing and financing exchange and leisure pro-
grammes for mixed groups of Algerian and European young
This cooperation could cover the following areas:
people residing in the Member States, with a view to promot-
ing mutual knowledge of their respective cultures and foster-
ing tolerance; — literary translation,
— conservation and restoration of monuments and sites of his-
(h) improving living conditions in poor areas;
torical and cultural interest,
(i) promoting socio-professional dialogue; — training of persons working in the cultural field,
— exchanges of artists and works of arts,
(j) promoting respect for human rights in the socio-professional
context;
— organisation of cultural events,
(k) contributing to the development of the housing sector, espe-
— raising mutual awareness and disseminating information on
cially with regard to low-cost housing;
important cultural events,
— encouragement of cooperation in the audiovisual field, par-
(l) alleviating the adverse impact of the adjustment of economic
ticularly training and co-production,
and social structures;
— distribution of literary, technical and scientific journals and
(m) improving the vocational training system. publications.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/21
Article 78 Article 81
The aim of cooperation in the field of education and training shall
be to:
In order to ensure a coordinated approach to dealing with any
(a) contribute to the improvement of the education and training
exceptional macroeconomic or financial problems which might
system, including vocational training;
stem from the progressive implementation of the provisions of
this Agreement, the Parties shall closely monitor the development
(b) place special emphasis on giving the female population of trade and financial relations between the Community and Alge-
access to education, including technical training, higher edu- ria as part of the regular economic dialogue established under
cation and vocational training; Title V.
(c) develop the level of expertise of senior staff in the public and
private sectors;
(d) encourage the establishment of lasting links between special- TITLE VIII
ist bodies on the Parties’ territories in order to pool and
exchange experience and methods.
COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF JUSTICE AND HOME
AFFAIRS
TITLE VII
FINANCIAL COOPERATION
Article 79 Article 82
Institution-building and the rule of law
In order to support the objectives of this Agreement, Algeria shall
receive financial cooperation Algeria in accordance with the
appropriate procedures and with the appropriate financial
resources.
In their cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, the
These procedures shall be adopted by mutual agreement between Parties shall attach particular importance to institution-building in
the Parties by means of the most suitable instruments once this the areas of law enforcement and the machinery of justice. This
Agreement enters into force. includes the consolidation of the rule of law.
In addition to the areas covered by Titles V and VI of this Agree-
ment, cooperation shall apply to the following:
In this context the Parties shall also ensure that the rights of
— facilitating reforms designed to modernise the economy, nationals of both Parties are respected without discrimination in
including rural development, the territory of the other Party.
— upgrading economic infrastructure,
— promoting private investment and job-creating activities,
The provisions of this Article do not relate to differences of treat-
ment based on nationality.
— offsetting the effects on the Algerian economy of the progres-
sive introduction of a free trade area, in particular where the
updating and restructuring of industry is concerned,
— accompanying measures for policies implemented in the
Article 83
social sectors.
Movement of persons
Article 80
Within the framework of the Community instruments designed
to support structural adjustment programmes in the Mediterra- Desirous of facilitating the movement of persons between them,
nean countries in order to restore key financial equilibria and cre- the Parties shall ensure, in accordance with the relevant Commu-
ate an economic environment conducive to faster growth and nity and national legislation in force, that the formalities for the
enhanced social welfare, the Community and Algeria, in close issue of visas are carefully applied and executed and shall agree to
coordination with other contributors, in particular the interna- examine, within the limits of their powers, ways of simplifying
tional financial institutions, shall adapt the instruments intended and speeding up the issue of visas to persons contributing to the
to accompany development and liberalisation policies for the implementation of this Agreement. The Association Committee
Algerian economy. shall periodically examine the implementation of this Article.L 265/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 84 4. Criminal judicial cooperation will cover:
Cooperation in the prevention and control of illegal
immigration; readmission
— strengthening existing mutual assistance or extradition
arrangements,
1. The Parties reaffirm the importance which they attach to the
development of mutually beneficial cooperation in relation to the — the development of exchanges, in particular in relation to the
exchange of information on illegal immigration flows and agree practice of criminal judicial cooperation, the protection of
to cooperate in order to prevent and control illegal immigra- individual rights and freedoms, action against organised
tion. To this end: crime and improving the efficiency of criminal justice.
— Algeria, on the one hand, and each Member State of the 5. Cooperation in this area shall in particular include the intro-
Community, on the other hand, agree to readmit any of their duction of specialist training courses.
nationals illegally present on the territory of the other Party
after the necessary identification formalities have been
completed,
Article 86
Preventing and tackling organised crime
— Algeria and the Member States of the Community shall pro-
vide their nationals with the appropriate identity documents
for this purpose. 1. The Parties agree to cooperate in order to prevent and fight
organised crime, in particular in the following fields: human traf-
ficking; exploitation for sexual purposes; the illicit traffic of pro-
2. Desirous of facilitating the movement and residence of their hibited, counterfeited or pirated products, and illegal transactions
nationals whose status is regular, the Parties agree to negotiate, at concerning, in particular, industrial refuse or radioactive material;
the request of either Party, the conclusion of agreements on com- corruption; the trafficking of stolen cars; the trafficking of fire-
bating illegal immigration and on readmission. If either Party con- arms and explosives; computer crime; and trafficking in cultural
siders it necessary, such agreements shall cover the readmission of goods.
nationals of other countries arriving in their territory direct from
the territory of the other. The practical arrangements for the
implementation of the abovementioned agreements shall be laid The Parties shall cooperate closely in order to establish appropri-
down, where appropriate, by the Parties in the agreements them- ate mechanisms and standards.
selves or in their implementing protocols.
2. Technical and administrative cooperation in this field may
3. The Association Council shall examine the possibility of include training and improving the effectiveness of the authori-
other forms of joint action for the prevention and control of ille- ties and bodies responsible for fighting and preventing crime and
gal immigration, including ways of detecting forged documents. the design of crime prevention measures.
Article 85 Article 87
Legal and judicial cooperation Combating money laundering
1. The Parties agree on the need to work towards and cooper-
1. The Parties agree that cooperation in the legal and judicial
ate on preventing the use of their financial systems to launder the
fields is essential and a necessary adjunct to the other forms of
proceeds of criminal activities in general and drug trafficking in
cooperation provided for in this Agreement.
particular.
2. Such cooperation may include, where appropriate, the
2. Cooperation in this area shall include administrative and
negotiation of agreements in these fields.
technical assistance with the purpose of adopting and implement-
ing suitable standards against money laundering equivalent to
those adopted by the Community and international authorities
3. Civil judicial cooperation will in particular cover:
active in this field, including the Financial Action Task Force
(FATF).
— strengthening mutual assistance with regard to cooperation
in the handling of disputes or cases of a civil, commercial or 3. Cooperation shall have the objective of:
family nature,
(a) training agents of the services responsible for preventing,
— the exchange of experience in relation to managing detecting and combating money laundering, and officials of
and improving the administration of civil justice. the judiciary;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/23
(b) appropriate support for the creation of specialist institutions (c) the establishment of standards for preventing diversion of
and the strengthening of existing institutions. precursors and other essential ingredients for the illicit manu-
facture of narcotics and psychotropic substances, which are
equivalent to those adopted by the Community and the
appropriate international authorities;
Article 88
Combating racism and xenophobia
(d) support for the creation of special anti-drug trafficking
services.
The Parties agree to take appropriate steps to prevent and com-
bat discrimination in all its forms and manifestations, whether it
be on grounds of race, ethnic origin or religion, particularly in the 4. Both Parties shall encourage cooperation at regional and
fields of education, employment, training and housing. sub-regional level.
Public information and awareness campaigns will be organised to
this end. Article 90
Fight against terrorism
The Parties shall in particular ensure in this context that all per-
sons who consider themselves victims of such discrimination
have access to judicial and administrative procedures. In accordance with the international conventions to which they
are party and with their respective laws and regulations, both Par-
ties agree to cooperate with a view to preventing and penalising
The provisions of this Article do not relate to differences of treat- acts of terrorism:
ment based on nationality.
— through the implementation in its entirety of United Nations
Security Council resolution 1373 and other related
Article 89
resolutions,
Combating drugs and drug addiction
— through the exchange of information on terrorist groups and
1. Cooperation shall be aimed at: their support networks in accordance with international and
national law,
(a) improving the effectiveness of policies and measures to pre-
vent and combat the growing, production, supply and con-
— by pooling experience of means and practices for combating
sumption of, and trafficking in, narcotics and psychotropic
terrorism, including experience in the technical and training
substances;
fields.
(b) eliminating illicit consumption of such products.
Article 91
2. The Parties shall determine together, in accordance with Fight against corruption
their respective laws, the strategies and cooperation methods
appropriate for attaining these objectives. Their operations, other
than joint operations, shall be the subject of consultation and close 1. The Parties agree to cooperate, on the basis of the relevant
coordination. international legal instruments, on action to combat corruption in
international business transactions:
Such action may involve the appropriate public and private sec-
tor institutions and international organisations, in collaboration
— by taking effective practical measures against all forms of cor-
with the Government of Algeria and the relevant authorities in the
ruption, bribery and illicit activities of every sort in interna-
Community and the Member States.
tional business transactions practised by individuals
or corporate bodies,
3. Cooperation shall take the following forms in particular:
— by providing mutual assistance in criminal investigations into
(a) establishment or extension of social and health institutions acts of corruption.
and information centres for the treatment and rehabilitation
of drug addicts;
2. Cooperation shall also cover technical assistance for the
training of officials and magistrates responsible for tackling cor-
(b) the implementation of prevention, information, training and ruption and support for initiatives designed to organise action
epidemiological research projects; against this form of crime.L 265/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
TITLE IX Article 96
INSTITUTIONAL, GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
1. The Association Committee, which shall meet at official
level, shall consist of representatives of members of the Council
Article 92 of the European Union and of the Commission of the European
Communities, on the one hand, and of representatives of the Gov-
ernment of Algeria, on the other.
An Association Council is hereby established which shall meet at
ministerial level once a year, where possible, on the initiative of
2. The Association Committee shall establish its rules of
its Chair and in accordance with the conditions laid down in its
procedure.
rules of procedure.
3. The Association Committee shall meet in the Community
It shall examine any major issues arising within the framework of
or in Algeria.
this Agreement and any other bilateral or international issues of
mutual interest.
Article 97
Article 93
The Association Committee shall have the power to take deci-
sions for the management of this Agreement as well as in those
1. The Association Council shall consist of the members of the
areas in which the Association Council has delegated its powers
Council of the European Union and members of the Commission
to it.
of the European Communities, on the one hand, and of members
of the Government of Algeria, on the other.
Decisions shall be adopted by agreement between the Parties and
shall be binding on the Parties, which shall take the measures nec-
2. Members of the Association Council may arrange to be rep-
essary to implement them.
resented in accordance with the provisions laid down in its rules
of procedure.
Article 98
3. The Association Council shall establish its rules of
procedure.
The Association Council may decide to set up any working group
or body necessary for the implementation of this Agreement.
4. The Association Council shall be chaired in turn by a mem-
ber of the Council of the European Union and a member of the
Government of Algeria in accordance with the provisions laid
Article 99
down in its rules of procedure.
The Association Council shall take all appropriate measures to
Article 94 facilitate cooperation and contacts between the European Parlia-
ment and the parliamentary institutions of Algeria, and between
the Economic and Social Committee of the Community and its
The Association Council shall, for the purpose of attaining the counterpart in Algeria.
objectives of this Agreement, have the power to take decisions in
the cases provided for therein.
Article 100
These decisions shall be binding on the Parties which shall take
the measures necessary to implement the decisions taken. The
1. Each of the Parties may refer to the Association Council any
Association Council may also make appropriate
dispute relating to the application or interpretation of this
recommendations.
Agreement.
It shall draw up its decisions and recommendations by agreement
2. The Association Council may settle the dispute by means of
between the Parties.
a decision.
3. Each Party shall be bound to take the measures involved in
Article 95
carrying out the decision referred to in paragraph 2.
1. Subject to the powers conferred upon the Association Coun-
4. In the event of it not being possible to settle the dispute in
cil, an Association Committee is hereby established which shall be
accordance with paragraph 2, either Party may notify the other of
responsible for the implementation of this Agreement.
the appointment of an arbitrator; the other Party must then
appoint a second arbitrator within two months. For the applica-
2. The Association Council may delegate to the Association tion of this procedure, the Community and the Member States
Committee, in full or in part, any of its powers. shall be deemed to be one party to the dispute.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/25
The Association Council shall appoint a third arbitrator. — preventing the adoption or application by either Party of any
measure aimed at preventing the avoidance or evasion of
taxes,
The arbitrators’ decisions shall be taken by majority vote.
— opposing the right of either Party to apply the relevant pro-
visions of its tax legislation to taxpayers who are not in iden-
Each party to the dispute must take the steps required to imple- tical situation, in particular as regards their place of residence.
ment the decision of the arbitrators.
Article 104
Article 101
1. The Parties shall take any general or specific measures
required to fulfil their obligations under this Agreement. They
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Contracting Party from shall see to it that the objectives set out in the Agreement are
taking any measures: attained.
2. If either Party considers that the other Party has failed to ful-
(a) which it considers necessary to prevent the disclosure of
fil an obligation under the Agreement, it may take appropriate
information contrary to its essential security interests;
measures. Before so doing, except in cases of special urgency, it
shall supply the Association Council with all the relevant infor-
mation required for a thorough examination of the situation with
(b) which relate to the production of, or trade in, arms, muni- a view to seeking a solution acceptable to the Parties.
tions or war materials or to research, development or pro-
duction indispensable for defence purposes, provided that
such measures do not impair the conditions of competition In the selection of measures, priority must be given to those which
in respect of products not intended for specifically military least disturb the functioning of the Agreement. These measures
purposes; shall be notified immediately to the Association Council and shall
be the subject of consultations within the Association Council if
the other Party so requests.
(c) which it considers essential to its own security in the event
of serious internal disturbances affecting the maintenance of
law and order, in time of war or serious international tension Article 105
constituting threat of war or in order to carry out obligations
it has accepted for the purpose of maintaining peace
Protocols 1 to 7 and Annexes 1 to 6 shall form an integral part of
and international security.
this Agreement.
Article 102 Article 106
For the purposes of this Agreement, ‘Parties’ shall mean, on the
In the fields covered by this Agreement, and without prejudice to
one hand, the Community or the Member States, or the Commu-
any special provisions contained therein:
nity and its Member States, in accordance with their respective
powers, and, on the other hand, Algeria.
— the arrangements applied by Algeria in respect of the Com-
munity shall not give rise to any discrimination between the
Article 107
Member States, their nationals or their companies or firms,
This Agreement shall be concluded for an unlimited period.
— the arrangements applied by the Community in respect of
Algeria shall not give rise to any discrimination between
Each of the Parties may denounce this Agreement by notifying the
Algerian nationals, companies or firms.
other Party. The Agreement shall cease to apply six months after
the date of such notification.
Article 103
Article 108
Nothing in this Agreement shall have the effect of: This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in
which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied
and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the
— extending the fiscal advantages granted by either Party in any other, to the territory of the People’s Democratic Republic of
international agreement or arrangement by which it is bound, Algeria.L 265/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 109 This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the sec-
ond month following the date on which the Contracting Parties
This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, notify each other that the procedures referred to in the first sub-
Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portu- paragraph have been completed.
guese, Spanish, Swedish and Arabic languages, each of these texts
being equally authentic.
2. Upon its entry into force, this Agreement shall replace the
Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Com-
Article 110 munity and the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria and the
Agreement between the Member States of the European Coal and
1. This Agreement will be approved by the Contracting Par- Steel Community and the People’s Democratic Republic of Alge-
ties in accordance with their own procedures. ria, both of which were signed in Algiers on 26 April 1976.
Hecho en Valencia, el veintidós de abril del dos mil dos.
Udfærdiget i Valencia den toogtyvende april to tusind og to.
Geschehen zu Valencia am zweiundzwanzigsten April zweitausendundzwei.
Έγινε στη Βαλένθια, στις εΐκοσι δύο Απριλΐον δύο χιλιάδες δύο.
Done at Valencia on the twenty-second day of April in the year two thousand and two.
Fait à Valence, le vingt-deux avril deux mille deux.
Fatto a Valenza, addi’ ventidue aprile duemiladue.
Gedaan te Valencia, de tweeëntwintigste april tweeduizendtwee.
Feito em Valência, em vinte e dois de Abril de dois mil e dois.
Tehty Valenciassa kahdentenakymmenentenätoisenä päivänä huhtikuuta vuonna kaksituhattakaksi.
Som skedde i Valencia den tjugoandra april tjugohundratvå.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/27
Pour le Royaume de Belgique
Voor het Koninkrijk België
Für das Königreich Belgien
Cette signature engage également la Communauté française, la Communauté flamande, la Communauté ger-
manophone, la Région wallonne, la Région flamande et la Région de Bruxelles-Capitale.
Deze handtekening verbindt eveneens de Vlaamse Gemeenschap, de Franse Gemeenschap, de Duitstalige
Gemeenschap, het Vlaamse Gewest, het Waalse Gewest en het Brussels Hoofdstedelijk Gewest.
Diese Unterschrift verbindet zugleich die Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft, die Flämische Gemeinschaft, die
Französische Gemeinschaft, die Wallonische Region, die Flämische Region und die Region Brüssel-Hauptstadt.
På Kongeriget Danmarks vegne
Für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland
Για την Eλληνική Δημoκρατία
Por el Reino de EspañaL 265/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Pour la République française
Thar cheann Na hÉireann
For Ireland
Per la Repubblica italiana
Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg
Voor het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/29
Für die Republik Österreich
Pela República Portuguesa
Suomen tasavallan puolesta
För Republiken Finland
För Konungariket Sverige
For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandL 265/30 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Por la Comunidad Europea
For Det Europæiske Fællesskab
Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft
Για την Eυρωπαϊκή Koινότητα
For the European Community
Pour la Communauté européenne
Per la Comunità europea
Voor de Europese Gemeenschap
Pela Comunidade Europeia
Euroopan yhteisön puolesta
På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/31
ANNEX 1
List of agricultural and processed agricultural products falling within HS chapters 25 to 97 referred to in
articles 7 and 14
HS code 2905 43 (mannitol)
HS code 2905 44 (sorbitol)
HS code 2905 45 (glycerol)
HS heading 3301 (essential oils)
HS code 3302 10 (odoriferous substances)
HS headings 3501 to 3505 (albuminoidal substances, modified starches, glues)
HS code 3809 10 (finishing agents)
HS heading 3823 industrial fatty alcohols).
HS code 3824 60 (sorbitol other than sorbitol of 2905 44)
HS headings 4101 to 4103 (hides and skins)
HS heading 4301 (raw furskins)
HS headings 5001 to 5003 (raw silk and silk waste)
HS headings 5101 to 5103 (wool and animal hair)
HS headings 5201 to 5203 (raw cotton, waste and cotton carded or combed)
HS heading 5301 (raw flax)
HS heading 5302 (raw hemp)L 265/32 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
ANNEX 2
List of products referred to in Article 9(1)
HS Code
2501 00 10 2517 10 00 2604 00 00 2707 50 00 2714 90 20
2501 00 90 2517 20 00 2605 00 00 2707 60 00 2715 00 20
2502 00 00 2517 30 00 2606 00 00 2707 91 00 2715 00 40
2503 00 00 2517 41 00 2607 00 00 2707 99 10 2715 00 90
2504 10 00 2517 49 00 2608 00 00 2707 99 20 2801 10 00
2504 90 00 2518 10 00 2609 00 00 2707 99 30 2801 20 00
2505 10 00 2518 20 00 2610 00 00 2707 99 40 2801 30 00
2505 90 00 2518 30 00 2611 00 00 2707 99 90 2802 00 00
2506 10 00 2519 10 00 2612 10 00 2708 10 00 2803 00 00
2506 21 00 2519 90 00 2612 20 00 2708 20 00 2804 10 00
2506 29 00 2520 10 00 2613 10 00 2709 00 10 2804 21 00
2507 00 10 2520 20 00 2613 90 00 2710 11 21 2804 29 00
2507 00 20 2521 00 00 2614 00 00 2710 11 22 2804 30 00
2508 10 00 2522 10 00 2615 10 00 2710 11 23 2804 40 00
2508 20 00 2522 20 00 2615 90 00 2710 11 24 2804 50 00
2508 30 00 2522 30 00 2616 10 00 2710 11 25 2804 61 00
2508 40 10 2523 10 00 2616 90 10 2710 11 29 2804 69 00
2508 40 90 2523 21 00 2616 90 90 2710 19 41 2804 70 00
2508 50 00 2523 29 00 2617 10 00 2710 19 42 2804 80 00
2508 60 00 2523 30 00 2617 90 00 2710 19 43 2804 90 00
2508 70 00 2523 90 00 2618 00 00 2710 19 44 2805 11 00
2509 00 00 2524 00 00 2619 00 00 2710 19 45 2805 12 00
2510 10 00 2525 10 00 2620 11 00 2710 19 46 2805 19 00
2510 20 00 2525 20 00 2620 19 00 2710 19 47 2805 30 00
2511 10 00 2525 30 00 2620 21 00 2710 19 49 2805 40 00
2511 20 00 2526 10 00 2620 29 00 2711 12 20 2806 10 00
2512 00 10 2526 20 00 2620 30 00 2711 13 20 2806 20 00
2512 00 90 2528 10 00 2620 40 00 2711 14 20 2807 00 00
2513 11 00 2528 90 00 2620 60 00 2711 19 20 2808 00 10
2513 19 00 2529 10 00 2620 91 00 2711 29 20 2808 00 20
2513 20 00 2529 21 00 2620 99 00 2712 10 20 2809 10 00
2514 00 00 2529 22 00 2621 10 00 2712 20 20 2809 20 00
2515 11 00 2529 30 00 2621 90 00 2712 90 20 2810 00 00
2515 12 00 2530 10 00 2706 00 00 2712 90 40 2811 11 00
2515 20 10 2530 20 00 2707 10 10 2712 90 90 2811 19 00
2515 20 20 2530 90 00 2707 10 90 2713 11 20 2811 21 00
2516 11 00 2601 11 00 2707 20 10 2713 12 20 2811 22 00
2516 12 00 2601 12 00 2707 20 90 2713 20 20 2811 23 00
2516 21 00 2601 20 00 2707 30 10 2713 90 20 2811 29 00
2516 22 00 2602 00 00 2707 30 90 2714 10 20 2812 10 00
2516 90 00 2603 00 00 2707 40 00 2714 10 40 2812 90 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/33
2813 10 00 2827 31 00 2834 10 00 2842 10 00 2903 12 00
2813 90 00 2827 32 00 2834 21 00 2842 90 10 2903 13 00
2814 10 00 2827 33 00 2834 29 10 2842 90 90 2903 14 00
2814 20 00 2827 34 00 2834 29 90 2843 10 00 2903 15 00
2815 11 00 2827 35 00 2835 10 00 2843 21 00 2903 19 00
2815 12 00 2827 36 00 2835 22 00 2843 29 00 2903 21 00
2815 20 10 2827 39 10 2835 23 00 2843 30 00 2903 22 00
2815 20 20 2827 39 90 2835 24 00 2843 90 00 2903 23 00
2815 30 00 2827 41 00 2835 25 00 2844 10 00 2903 29 00
2816 10 00 2827 49 00 2835 26 00 2844 20 00 2903 30 00
2816 40 00 2827 51 00 2835 29 00 2844 30 00 2903 41 00
2817 00 10 2827 59 00 2835 31 00 2844 40 00 2903 42 00
2817 00 20 2827 60 00 2835 39 00 2844 50 00 2903 43 00
2818 10 00 2828 10 00 2836 10 00 2845 10 00 2903 44 00
2818 20 00 2828 90 10 2836 20 00 2845 90 00 2903 45 00
2818 30 00 2828 90 20 2836 30 00 2846 10 00 2903 46 00
2819 10 00 2828 90 90 2836 40 00 2846 90 00 2903 47 00
2819 90 00 2829 11 00 2836 50 00 2847 00 00 2903 49 00
2820 10 00 2829 19 00 2836 60 00 2848 00 00 2903 51 00
2820 90 00 2829 90 10 2836 70 00 2849 10 00 2903 59 00
2821 10 00 2829 90 20 2836 91 00 2849 20 00 2903 61 00
2821 20 00 2829 90 30 2836 92 00 2849 90 00 2903 62 10
2822 00 00 2830 10 00 2836 99 00 2850 00 00 2903 62 20
2823 00 00 2830 20 00 2837 11 00 2851 00 10 2903 69 00
2824 10 00 2830 30 00 2837 19 00 2851 00 90 2904 10 00
2824 20 00 2830 90 10 2837 20 00 2901 10 00 2904 20 10
2824 90 00 2830 90 90 2838 00 00 2901 21 00 2908 90 90
2825 10 00 2831 10 00 2839 11 00 2901 22 00 2909 11 00
2825 20 00 2831 90 00 2839 19 00 2901 23 00 2909 19 00
2825 30 00 2832 10 00 2839 20 00 2901 24 00 2909 20 00
2825 40 00 2832 20 00 2839 90 00 2901 29 00 2909 30 00
2825 50 00 2832 30 00 2840 11 00 2902 11 00 2909 41 00
2825 60 00 2833 11 00 2840 19 00 2902 19 00 2909 42 00
2825 70 00 2833 19 00 2840 20 00 2902 20 00 2909 43 00
2825 80 00 2833 21 00 2840 30 00 2902 30 00 2909 44 00
2825 90 00 2833 22 00 2841 10 00 2902 41 00 2909 49 00
2826 11 00 2833 23 00 2841 20 00 2902 42 00 2909 50 00
2826 12 00 2833 24 00 2841 30 00 2902 43 00 2909 60 00
2826 19 00 2833 25 00 2841 50 00 2902 44 00 2910 10 00
2826 20 00 2833 26 00 2841 61 00 2902 50 00 2910 20 00
2826 30 00 2833 27 00 2841 69 00 2902 60 00 2910 30 00
2826 90 00 2833 29 00 2841 70 00 2902 70 00 2915 34 00
2827 10 00 2833 30 00 2841 80 00 2902 90 00 2915 35 00
2827 20 00 2833 40 00 2841 90 00 2903 11 00 2915 39 00L 265/34 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
2915 40 00 2937 29 00 2905 41 00 2914 21 00 2918 14 00
2915 50 00 2937 31 00 2905 42 00 2914 22 00 2918 15 00
2915 60 00 2937 39 00 2905 49 00 2914 23 00 2918 16 00
2915 70 00 2937 40 00 2905 51 00 2914 29 00 2918 19 00
2915 90 00 2937 50 00 2905 59 00 2914 31 00 2918 21 00
2916 11 00 2937 90 00 2906 11 00 2914 39 00 2918 22 00
2916 12 00 2938 10 00 2906 12 00 2914 40 00 2918 23 00
2916 13 00 2938 90 00 2906 13 00 2914 50 00 2918 29 10
2916 14 00 2939 11 00 2906 14 00 2914 61 00 2918 29 90
2916 15 00 2939 19 00 2906 19 00 2914 69 00 2918 30 00
2916 19 00 2939 21 00 2906 21 00 2914 70 00 2918 90 00
2916 20 00 2939 29 00 2906 29 00 2915 11 00 2919 00 00
2921 21 00 2939 30 00 2907 11 00 2915 12 00 2920 10 00
2921 22 00 3105 51 00 2907 12 00 2915 13 00 2920 90 10
2921 29 00 3105 59 00 2907 13 00 2915 21 00 2920 90 20
2921 30 00 3105 60 00 2907 14 00 2915 22 00 2920 90 90
2921 41 00 3105 90 10 2907 15 00 2915 23 00 2921 11 00
2921 42 00 3105 90 90 2907 19 00 2915 24 00 2921 12 00
2921 43 00 3201 10 00 2907 21 00 2915 29 00 2921 19 00
2921 44 00 3201 20 00 2907 22 00 2915 31 00 2922 13 00
2921 45 00 3201 90 00 2907 23 00 2915 32 00 2922 14 00
2921 46 00 3202 10 00 2907 29 00 2915 33 00 2922 19 00
2921 49 00 3202 90 00 2908 10 00 2916 31 00 2922 21 00
2921 51 00 3203 00 00 2908 20 00 2916 32 00 2922 22 00
2921 59 00 3204 11 00 2908 90 10 2916 34 00 2922 29 00
2922 11 00 3204 12 00 2910 90 00 2916 35 00 2922 30 00
2922 12 00 3204 13 00 2911 00 00 2916 39 00 2922 31 00
2931 00 10 3204 14 00 2912 11 00 2917 11 00 2922 39 00
2931 00 20 2904 20 20 2912 12 00 2917 12 00 2922 41 00
2931 00 90 2904 20 90 2912 13 00 2917 13 00 2922 42 00
2932 11 00 2904 90 00 2912 19 00 2917 14 00 2922 43 00
2932 12 00 2905 11 00 2912 21 00 2917 19 00 2922 44 00
2932 13 00 2905 12 00 2912 29 00 2917 20 00 2922 49 00
2932 19 00 2905 13 00 2912 30 00 2917 31 00 2922 50 00
2932 21 00 2905 14 00 2912 41 00 2917 32 00 2923 10 00
2932 29 00 2905 15 00 2912 42 00 2917 33 00 2923 20 00
2932 91 00 2905 16 00 2912 49 00 2917 34 00 2923 90 00
2932 92 00 2905 17 00 2912 50 00 2917 35 00 2924 11 00
2932 93 00 2905 19 00 2912 60 00 2917 36 00 2924 19 00
2932 94 00 2905 22 00 2913 00 00 2917 37 00 2924 21 00
2932 95 00 2905 29 00 2914 11 00 2917 39 00 2924 23 00
2932 99 00 2905 31 00 2914 12 00 2918 11 00 2924 24 00
2937 22 00 2905 32 00 2914 13 00 2918 12 00 2924 29 00
2937 23 00 2905 39 00 2914 19 00 2918 13 00 2925 11 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/35
2925 12 00 2936 10 00 3104 30 00 3403 11 10 3706 10 00
2925 19 00 2936 21 00 3104 90 00 3403 19 10 3706 90 00
2925 20 00 2936 22 00 3105 10 00 3404 10 00 3707 10 00
2926 10 00 2936 23 00 3105 20 00 3404 20 00 3707 90 00
2926 20 00 2936 26 00 3105 30 00 3404 90 00 3801 10 00
2926 30 00 2936 27 00 3105 40 00 3407 00 20 3801 20 00
2926 90 00 2936 28 00 3105 51 00 3407 00 30 3801 30 00
2927 00 00 2936 29 00 3105 20 00 3601 00 00 3801 90 00
2928 00 00 2936 90 00 3105 30 00 3602 00 10 3802 10 00
2929 10 00 2937 11 00 3105 40 00 3602 00 20 3802 90 00
2929 90 00 2937 12 00 3204 15 00 3602 00 30 3803 00 00
2930 10 00 2937 19 00 3204 16 00 3602 00 40 3804 00 00
2930 20 00 2937 21 00 3204 17 00 3602 00 90 3805 10 00
2930 30 00 2939 41 00 3204 19 00 3603 00 10 3805 20 00
2930 40 00 2939 42 00 3204 20 00 3603 00 20 3805 90 00
2930 90 00 2939 43 00 3204 90 00 3603 00 30 3806 10 00
2933 11 00 2939 49 00 3205 00 10 3603 00 90 3806 20 00
2933 19 00 2939 51 00 3205 00 20 3701 10 00 3806 30 00
2933 21 00 2939 59 00 3206 11 00 3701 20 00 3806 90 00
2933 29 00 2939 61 00 3206 19 00 3701 30 00 3807 00 10
2933 31 00 2939 62 00 3206 20 00 3701 91 00 3807 00 20
2933 32 00 2939 63 00 3206 30 00 3701 99 00 3807 00 90
2933 33 00 2939 69 00 3206 41 00 3702 10 00 3808 10 90
2933 39 00 2939 91 00 3206 42 00 3702 20 00 3808 20 90
2933 41 00 2939 99 00 3206 43 00 3702 31 00 3808 30 90
2933 49 00 2940 00 00 3206 49 00 3702 32 00 3808 40 90
2933 52 00 3002 20 00 3206 50 00 3702 39 00 3808 90 90
2933 53 00 3102 10 00 3207 10 00 3702 41 00 3809 91 00
2933 54 00 3102 21 00 3207 20 00 3702 42 00 3809 92 00
2933 55 00 3102 29 00 3207 30 00 3702 43 00 3809 93 00
2933 59 00 3102 30 00 3207 40 00 3702 44 00 3810 10 00
2933 61 00 3102 40 00 3210 00 50 3702 51 00 3810 90 00
2933 69 00 3102 50 00 3211 00 00 3702 52 00 3811 11 00
2933 71 00 3102 60 00 3212 10 00 3702 53 00 3811 19 00
2933 72 00 3102 70 00 3212 90 10 3702 54 00 3811 21 00
2933 79 00 3102 80 00 3212 90 20 3702 55 00 3811 29 00
2933 91 00 3102 90 10 3214 10 10 3702 56 00 3811 90 00
2933 99 00 3102 90 20 3214 10 20 3702 91 00 3812 10 00
2934 10 00 3102 90 90 3214 10 30 3702 93 00 3812 20 00
2934 20 00 3103 10 00 3214 90 00 3702 94 00 3812 30 00
2934 30 00 3103 20 00 3215 11 00 3702 95 00 3813 00 00
2934 91 00 3103 90 00 3215 19 00 3703 10 00 3814 00 00
2934 99 00 3104 10 00 3215 90 00 3703 20 00 3815 11 00
2935 00 00 3104 20 00 3302 90 00 3703 90 00 3815 12 00L 265/36 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
3815 19 00 3904 50 00 3915 90 00 3921 11 00 4002 60 90
3815 90 00 3904 61 00 3916 10 00 3921 12 00 4002 70 10
3816 00 00 3904 69 00 3916 20 00 3921 14 00 4002 70 20
3817 00 00 3904 90 00 3917 10 00 3921 19 10 4002 70 90
3818 00 00 3905 12 00 3917 21 00 3921 19 20 4002 80 10
3820 00 00 3905 19 00 3917 22 00 3921 90 00 4002 80 20
3821 00 00 3905 21 00 3917 23 00 4001 10 10 4002 80 90
3822 00 00 3905 29 00 3917 29 00 4001 10 20 4002 91 10
3824 10 00 3905 30 00 3917 31 00 4001 10 90 4002 91 20
3824 20 00 3905 91 00 3917 32 00 4001 21 00 4002 91 90
3824 30 00 3905 99 00 3917 33 00 4001 22 00 4002 99 10
3824 40 00 3906 10 00 3917 39 00 4001 29 10 4002 99 20
3824 50 00 3906 90 00 3917 40 00 4001 29 90 4002 99 90
3824 71 00 3907 10 00 3918 10 00 4001 30 10 4003 00 00
3824 79 00 3907 20 00 3918 90 00 4001 30 90 4004 00 00
3824 90 00 3907 30 00 3919 10 00 4002 11 10 4005 10 00
3825 10 00 3907 40 00 3919 90 00 4002 11 20 4005 20 00
3825 20 00 3907 50 10 3920 10 10 4002 11 90 4005 91 10
3825 30 00 3907 50 90 3920 10 90 4002 19 10 4005 91 20
3825 41 00 3907 60 00 3920 20 10 4002 19 20 4005 99 00
3825 49 00 3907 91 00 3920 20 90 4002 19 90 4006 10 00
3825 50 00 3907 99 00 3920 30 10 4002 20 10 4006 90 00
3825 61 00 3908 10 00 3920 30 90 4002 20 20 4007 00 00
3825 69 00 3908 90 00 3920 43 00 4002 20 90 4008 11 00
3825 90 00 3909 10 00 3920 49 00 4002 31 10 4008 19 00
3901 10 00 3909 20 00 3920 51 00 4002 31 20 4008 21 00
3901 20 00 3909 30 00 3920 59 00 4002 31 90 4008 29 00
3901 30 00 3909 40 00 3920 61 00 4002 39 10 4009 11 00
3901 90 00 3909 50 00 3920 62 00 4002 39 20 4009 12 00
3902 10 10 3910 00 00 3920 63 00 4002 39 90 4009 21 00
3902 10 90 3911 10 00 3920 69 00 4002 41 10 4009 22 00
3902 20 00 3911 90 00 3920 71 10 4002 41 20 4009 31 00
3902 30 00 3912 11 00 3920 71 19 4002 41 90 4009 32 00
3902 90 00 3912 12 00 3920 71 90 4002 49 10 4009 41 00
3903 11 00 3912 20 00 3920 71 99 4002 49 20 4009 42 00
3903 19 00 3912 31 00 3920 72 00 4002 49 90 4014 10 00
3903 20 00 3912 39 00 3920 73 00 4002 51 10 4104 11 00
3903 30 00 3912 90 00 3920 79 00 4002 51 20 4104 19 00
3903 90 00 3913 10 00 3920 91 00 4002 51 90 4105 10 00
3904 10 00 3913 90 00 3920 92 00 4002 59 10 4105 30 00
3904 21 00 3914 00 00 3920 93 00 4002 59 20 4106 21 00
3904 22 00 3915 10 00 3920 94 00 4002 59 90 4106 22 00
3904 30 00 3915 20 00 3920 99 10 4002 60 10 4106 31 00
3904 40 00 3915 30 00 3920 99 90 4002 60 20 4106 32 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/37
4106 40 00 4408 90 10 4705 00 00 4806 20 00 5105 40 00
4106 91 00 4408 90 20 4706 10 00 4806 30 00 5106 10 00
4106 92 00 4408 90 90 4706 20 00 4806 40 00 5106 20 00
4107 11 00 4409 10 00 4706 91 00 4807 00 00 5107 10 00
4107 12 00 4409 20 00 4706 92 00 4808 10 00 5107 20 00
4107 19 00 4410 21 00 4706 93 00 4808 20 00 5108 10 00
4107 91 00 4410 29 00 4707 10 00 4808 30 00 5108 20 00
4107 92 00 4410 31 00 4707 20 00 4808 90 00 5110 00 00
4107 99 00 4410 32 00 4707 30 00 4809 10 00 5204 11 00
4112 00 00 4410 33 00 4707 90 00 4809 20 00 5204 19 00
4113 10 00 4410 39 00 4801 00 00 4809 90 00 5205 11 00
4113 20 00 4410 90 00 4802 10 00 4810 13 00 5205 12 00
4113 30 00 4411 11 00 4802 20 00 4810 19 00 5205 13 00
4113 90 00 4411 19 00 4802 30 00 4810 21 00 5205 14 00
4114 10 00 4411 21 00 4802 40 00 4810 29 00 5205 15 00
4114 20 00 4411 29 00 4802 54 00 4810 31 00 5205 21 00
4115 10 00 4411 31 00 4802 55 00 4810 32 00 5205 22 00
4115 20 00 4411 39 00 4802 57 00 4810 39 00 5205 23 00
4403 10 00 4411 91 00 4802 59 00 4810 91 00 5205 24 00
4403 20 00 4411 99 00 4802 61 00 4810 99 00 5205 26 00
4403 41 00 4412 13 00 4802 69 00 4811 10 00 5205 27 00
4403 49 00 4412 14 00 4804 11 00 4811 41 00 5205 28 00
4403 91 00 4412 19 00 4804 19 00 4811 49 00 5205 31 00
4403 92 00 4412 22 00 4804 21 00 4811 51 90 5205 32 00
4403 99 00 4412 23 00 4804 29 00 4811 59 10 5205 33 00
4404 10 00 4412 29 00 4804 31 00 4811 59 90 5205 34 00
4404 20 00 4412 92 00 4804 39 00 4811 60 10 5205 35 00
4405 00 00 4412 93 00 4804 41 00 4811 60 90 5205 41 00
4406 10 00 4412 99 00 4804 42 00 4811 90 00 5205 42 00
4406 90 00 4413 00 00 4804 49 00 4812 00 00 5205 43 00
4407 10 00 4501 10 00 4804 51 00 4818 40 10 5205 44 00
4407 24 00 4501 90 00 4804 52 00 4819 20 20 5205 46 00
4407 25 00 4502 00 10 4804 59 00 4822 10 00 5205 47 00
4407 92 00 4502 00 90 4805 11 00 4822 90 00 5205 48 00
4407 99 00 4701 00 00 4805 12 00 4823 12 00 5206 11 00
4408 10 10 4702 00 00 4805 19 00 4823 19 00 5206 12 00
4408 10 20 4703 11 00 4805 24 00 4823 20 00 5206 13 00
4408 10 90 4703 19 00 4805 25 00 5004 00 00 5206 14 00
4408 31 10 4703 21 00 4805 30 00 5005 00 00 5206 15 00
4408 31 20 4703 29 00 4805 40 00 5006 00 00 5206 21 00
4408 31 90 4704 11 00 4805 91 00 5104 00 00 5206 22 00
4408 39 10 4704 19 00 4805 92 00 5105 10 00 5206 23 00
4408 39 20 4704 21 00 4805 93 00 5105 21 00 5206 24 00
4408 39 90 4704 29 00 4806 10 00 5105 29 00 5206 25 00L 265/38 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
5206 31 00 5402 61 00 5509 42 00 5911 90 20 6902 90 00
5206 32 00 5402 62 00 5509 51 00 5911 90 90 6903 10 00
5206 33 00 5402 69 00 5509 52 00 6406 10 10 6903 20 00
5206 34 00 5403 10 00 5509 53 00 6406 10 20 6903 90 00
5206 35 00 5403 20 00 5509 59 00 6406 10 30 6904 10 00
5206 41 00 5403 31 00 5509 61 00 6406 10 40 6904 90 00
5206 42 00 5403 32 00 5509 62 00 6406 10 90 6905 10 00
5206 43 00 5403 33 00 5509 69 00 6406 20 10 6905 90 00
5206 44 00 5403 39 00 5509 91 00 6406 20 20 6906 00 00
5206 45 00 5403 41 00 5509 92 00 6406 91 00 7001 00 00
5303 10 00 5403 42 00 5509 99 00 6406 99 10 7002 10 00
5303 90 00 5403 49 00 5510 11 00 6406 99 20 7002 20 00
5304 10 00 5404 10 00 5510 12 00 6406 99 30 7002 31 00
5304 90 00 5404 90 00 5510 20 00 6406 99 40 7002 32 00
5305 11 00 5405 00 00 5510 30 00 6406 99 50 7002 39 00
5305 19 00 5406 10 00 5510 90 00 6406 99 60 7003 12 00
5305 21 00 5406 20 00 5511 10 00 6406 99 90 7003 19 00
5305 29 00 5501 10 00 5511 20 00 6602 00 10 7003 20 00
5305 90 10 5501 20 00 5511 30 00 6806 10 00 7003 30 00
5305 90 90 5501 30 00 5603 11 00 6806 20 00 7004 20 00
5306 10 10 5501 90 00 5603 12 00 6806 90 00 7004 90 00
5306 20 10 5502 00 00 5603 13 00 6808 00 00 7005 10 00
5307 10 00 5503 10 00 5603 14 00 6809 11 00 7005 21 00
5307 20 00 5503 20 00 5603 91 00 6809 19 00 7005 29 00
5308 10 00 5503 30 00 5603 92 00 6809 90 00 7005 30 00
5308 20 10 5503 40 00 5603 93 00 6810 11 00 7006 00 00
5308 90 10 5503 90 00 5603 94 00 6810 19 00 7007 11 10
5308 90 30 5504 10 00 5604 10 00 6810 91 00 7007 11 90
5308 90 90 5504 90 00 5604 20 00 6810 99 00 7007 19 00
5401 10 10 5505 10 00 5604 90 00 6811 10 00 7007 21 10
5401 20 10 5505 20 00 5605 00 00 6811 20 00 7007 21 90
5402 10 00 5506 10 00 5606 00 00 6811 30 00 7007 29 00
5402 20 00 5506 20 00 5902 10 00 6811 90 00 7008 00 00
5402 31 00 5506 30 00 5902 20 00 6813 10 00 7010 10 10
5402 32 00 5506 90 00 5902 90 00 6813 90 00 7010 10 90
5402 33 00 5507 00 00 5908 00 00 6814 10 00 7010 20 00
5402 39 00 5508 10 10 5909 00 00 6814 90 00 7010 90 10
5402 41 00 5508 20 10 5910 00 00 6815 10 00 7010 90 91
5402 42 00 5509 11 00 5911 10 00 6815 20 00 7010 90 92
5402 43 00 5509 12 00 5911 20 00 6815 91 00 7010 90 99
5402 49 00 5509 21 00 5911 31 00 6815 99 00 7011 10 00
5402 51 00 5509 22 00 5911 32 00 6901 00 00 7011 20 00
5402 52 00 5509 31 00 5911 40 00 6902 10 00 7011 90 00
5402 59 00 5509 32 00 5911 90 10 6902 20 00 7019 11 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/39
7019 12 00 7111 00 00 7208 38 00 7214 91 00 7220 90 00
7019 19 00 7112 30 00 7208 39 00 7214 99 00 7221 00 00
7019 31 00 7201 10 00 7208 40 00 7215 10 00 7222 11 00
7019 32 00 7201 20 00 7208 51 00 7215 50 00 7222 19 00
7019 39 10 7201 50 00 7208 52 00 7215 90 00 7222 20 00
7019 40 00 7202 11 00 7208 53 00 7216 10 10 7222 30 00
7019 51 00 7202 19 00 7208 54 00 7216 10 20 7222 40 00
7019 52 00 7202 21 00 7208 90 00 7216 10 30 7223 00 00
7019 59 00 7202 29 00 7209 15 00 7216 21 00 7224 10 00
7019 90 00 7202 30 00 7209 16 00 7216 22 00 7224 90 00
7020 00 20 7202 41 00 7209 17 00 7216 31 00 7225 11 00
7020 00 30 7202 49 00 7209 18 00 7216 32 00 7225 19 00
7102 10 10 7202 50 00 7209 25 00 7216 33 00 7225 20 00
7102 21 00 7202 60 00 7209 26 00 7216 40 00 7225 30 00
7102 29 00 7202 70 00 7209 27 00 7216 50 10 7225 40 00
7103 10 10 7202 80 00 7209 28 00 7216 50 90 7225 50 00
7103 91 10 7202 91 00 7209 90 00 7216 61 00 7225 91 00
7103 99 10 7202 92 00 7210 11 00 7216 69 00 7225 92 00
7104 10 10 7202 93 00 7210 12 00 7216 91 00 7225 99 00
7104 20 10 7202 99 00 7210 20 00 7216 99 00 7226 11 00
7104 90 10 7203 10 00 7210 50 00 7217 10 00 7226 19 00
7105 10 00 7203 90 00 7210 61 00 7217 20 00 7226 20 00
7105 90 00 7204 10 00 7210 69 00 7217 30 00 7226 91 00
7106 10 00 7204 21 00 7210 70 00 7217 90 00 7226 92 00
7106 91 00 7204 29 00 7210 90 00 7218 10 00 7226 93 00
7106 92 10 7204 30 00 7211 13 00 7218 91 00 7226 94 00
7106 92 20 7204 41 00 7211 14 00 7218 99 00 7226 99 00
7106 92 90 7204 49 00 7211 19 00 7219 11 00 7227 10 00
7107 00 10 7204 50 00 7211 23 00 7219 12 00 7227 20 00
7107 00 20 7205 10 00 7211 29 00 7219 13 00 7227 90 00
7108 20 00 7205 21 00 7211 90 00 7219 14 00 7228 10 00
7110 11 00 7205 29 00 7212 10 00 7219 21 00 7228 20 00
7110 19 10 7206 10 00 7212 20 00 7219 22 00 7228 30 00
7110 19 20 7206 90 00 7212 30 00 7219 23 00 7228 40 00
7110 19 90 7207 11 00 7212 40 00 7219 24 00 7228 50 00
7110 21 00 7207 12 00 7212 50 00 7219 31 00 7228 60 00
7110 29 10 7207 19 00 7212 60 00 7219 32 00 7228 70 00
7110 29 90 7207 20 00 7213 10 00 7219 33 00 7228 80 10
7110 31 00 7208 10 00 7213 20 00 7219 34 00 7228 80 20
7110 39 10 7208 25 00 7213 91 00 7219 35 00 7229 10 00
7110 39 90 7208 26 00 7213 99 00 7219 90 00 7229 20 00
7110 41 00 7208 27 00 7214 10 00 7220 11 00 7229 90 00
7110 49 10 7208 36 00 7214 20 00 7220 12 00 7301 10 00
7110 49 90 7208 37 00 7214 30 00 7220 20 00 7301 20 00L 265/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
7303 00 00 7318 24 00 7413 00 00 7607 19 90 8101 10 00
7304 10 00 7318 29 00 7414 20 00 7607 20 10 8101 94 00
7304 31 90 7401 10 00 7414 90 00 7607 20 90 8101 95 00
7304 39 90 7401 20 00 7415 10 00 7608 10 00 8101 96 00
7304 41 90 7402 00 00 7415 21 00 7608 20 00 8101 97 00
7304 49 90 7403 11 00 7415 29 00 7609 00 00 8101 99 00
7304 51 90 7403 12 00 7415 33 00 7610 90 00 8102 10 00
7304 59 90 7403 13 00 7415 39 00 7611 00 00 8102 94 00
7304 90 90 7403 19 00 7416 00 00 7612 10 00 8102 95 00
7305 39 10 7403 21 00 7501 10 00 7612 90 00 8102 96 00
7305 39 90 7403 22 00 7501 20 00 7613 00 00 8102 97 00
7305 90 10 7403 23 00 7502 10 00 7614 10 00 8102 99 00
7305 90 90 7403 29 00 7502 20 00 7614 90 00 8103 20 00
7306 40 00 7404 00 00 7503 00 00 7616 99 40 8103 30 00
7306 50 00 7405 00 00 7504 00 00 7801 10 00 8103 90 00
7306 60 00 7406 10 00 7505 11 00 7801 91 00 8104 11 00
7306 90 00 7406 20 00 7505 12 00 7801 99 00 8104 19 00
7307 11 90 7407 10 00 7505 21 00 7802 00 00 8104 20 00
7307 19 00 7407 21 00 7505 22 00 7803 00 00 8104 30 00
7307 23 90 7407 22 00 7506 10 00 7804 11 00 8104 90 00
7307 29 00 7407 29 00 7506 20 00 7804 19 00 8105 20 00
7307 91 00 7408 11 00 7507 11 00 7804 20 00 8105 30 00
7307 92 00 7408 19 00 7507 12 00 7805 00 00 8105 90 00
7308 10 00 7408 21 00 7507 20 00 7806 00 10 8106 00 20
7308 20 00 7408 22 00 7508 90 10 7806 00 20 8106 00 30
7308 40 00 7408 29 00 7601 10 00 7806 00 90 8106 00 90
7308 90 00 7409 11 00 7601 20 00 7901 11 00 8107 20 00
7312 10 00 7409 19 00 7602 00 00 7901 12 00 8107 30 00
7312 90 00 7409 21 00 7603 10 00 7901 20 00 8107 90 00
7313 00 00 7409 29 00 7603 20 00 7902 00 00 8108 20 00
7317 00 10 7409 31 00 7604 10 00 7903 10 00 8108 30 00
7317 00 20 7409 39 00 7604 21 00 7903 90 00 8108 90 00
7317 00 30 7409 40 00 7604 29 00 7904 00 00 8109 20 00
7317 00 90 7409 90 00 7605 11 00 7905 00 00 8109 30 00
7318 11 00 7410 11 00 7605 19 00 7906 00 00 8109 90 00
7318 12 00 7410 12 00 7605 21 00 7907 00 00 8110 10 00
7318 13 00 7410 21 00 7605 29 00 8001 10 00 8110 20 00
7318 14 00 7410 22 00 7606 11 00 8001 20 00 8110 90 00
7318 15 00 7411 10 00 7606 12 00 8002 00 00 8111 00 20
7318 16 00 7411 21 00 7606 91 00 8003 00 00 8111 00 30
7318 19 00 7411 22 00 7606 92 00 8004 00 00 8111 00 90
7318 21 00 7411 29 00 7607 11 10 8005 00 00 8112 12 00
7318 22 00 7412 10 00 7607 11 90 8006 00 00 8112 13 00
7318 23 00 7412 20 00 7607 19 10 8007 00 20 8112 19 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/41
8112 21 00 8311 10 00 8803 20 00 8907 10 00 9302 00 00
8112 22 00 8311 20 00 8803 30 00 8907 90 00 9305 10 00
8112 29 00 8311 30 00 8803 90 00 8908 00 00 9305 91 00
8112 30 20 8311 90 00 8804 00 00 9001 20 00 9306 30 10
8112 30 30 8421 29 10 8805 10 00 9018 90 30 9306 90 10
8112 30 90 8469 30 10 8805 21 00 9018 90 50
9306 90 90
8112 40 20 8710 00 00 8805 29 00 9021 29 00
9701 10 00
8112 40 30 8713 10 00 8901 10 00 9021 31 00
9701 90 00
8112 40 90 8713 90 00 8901 30 00 9021 39 00
9702 00 00
8112 51 00 8714 20 00 8901 90 00 9021 40 00
9703 00 00
8112 52 00 8802 11 00 8904 00 00 9021 50 00
9704 00 00
8112 59 00 8802 12 00 8905 10 00 9021 90 10
9705 00 00
8112 92 00 8802 30 00 8905 20 00 9021 90 90
9706 00 00
8112 99 00 8802 40 00 8905 90 00 9301 11 00
8113 00 10 8802 60 00 8906 10 00 9301 19 00
8113 00 90 8803 10 00 8906 90 00 9301 20 00L 265/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
ANNEX 3
List of products referred to in Article 9(2)
HS Code
2701 11 00 3001 90 90 3705 90 00 4014 90 10 6305 32 00
2701 12 00 3002 10 00 3926 90 10 4014 90 90 6305 33 00
2701 19 00 3002 20 00 3926 90 20 4015 11 00 6305 39 00
2701 20 00 3002 30 00 3926 90 30 4015 19 10 6305 90 00
2702 10 00 3002 90 00 3926 90 40 5608 11 10 7015 10 00
2702 20 00 3003 10 00 3926 90 90 5608 11 90 7017 10 00
2703 00 00 3003 20 00 4010 11 00 5608 90 10 7017 20 00
2704 00 10 3003 31 00 4010 12 00 5608 90 20 7017 90 00
2704 00 20 3003 39 00 4010 13 00 6003 40 00 7302 10 00
2705 00 00 3003 40 00 4010 19 00 6003 90 00 7302 30 00
2709 00 90 3003 90 00 4010 31 00 6004 40 00 7302 40 00
2710 19 38 3004 10 00 4010 32 00 6004 90 00 7302 90 00
2711 11 00 3004 20 00 4010 33 00 6005 10 00 7304 21 00
2711 14 10 3004 31 00 4010 34 00 6005 21 00 7304 29 00
2711 19 10 3004 32 00 4010 35 00 6005 22 00 7304 31 10
2711 21 00 3004 39 00 4010 36 00 6005 23 00 7304 39 10
2711 29 10 3004 40 00 4010 39 00 6005 24 00 7304 41 10
2712 10 10 3004 50 10 4011 10 10 6005 31 00 7304 49 10
2712 20 10 3004 50 90 4011 10 90 6005 32 00 7304 51 10
2712 90 10 3004 90 00 4011 20 10 6005 33 00 7304 59 10
2712 90 30 3005 10 00 4011 20 20 6005 34 00 7304 90 10
2712 90 50 3005 90 00 4011 20 90 6005 41 00 7305 11 00
2713 11 10 3006 10 00 4011 30 00 6005 42 00 7305 12 00
2713 12 10 3006 20 00 4011 40 00 6005 43 00 7305 19 00
2713 20 10 3006 30 00 4011 50 00 6005 44 00 7305 20 00
2713 90 10 3006 40 00 4011 61 00 6005 90 00 7305 31 10
2714 10 10 3006 50 00 4011 62 00 6006 10 00 7305 31 90
2714 10 30 3006 60 00 4011 63 00 6006 21 00 7306 10 00
2714 90 10 3006 70 00 4011 69 00 6006 22 00 7306 20 00
2716 00 00 3006 80 00 4011 92 00 6006 23 00 7306 30 00
2936 24 00 3402 11 00 4011 93 00 6006 24 00 7307 11 10
2936 25 00 3402 12 00 4011 94 00 6006 31 00 7307 21 00
2941 10 00 3402 13 00 4011 99 00 6006 32 00 7307 22 00
2941 20 00 3402 19 00 4012 11 00 6006 33 00 7307 23 10
2941 30 00 3403 11 20 4012 12 00 6006 34 00 7307 93 00
2941 40 00 3403 19 20 4012 13 00 6006 41 00 7307 99 00
2941 50 00 3403 91 00 4012 19 00 6006 42 00 7310 10 00
2941 90 00 3403 99 00 4013 10 10 6006 43 00 7310 21 00
2942 00 00 3704 00 10 4013 10 20 6006 44 00 7310 29 00
3001 10 00 3704 00 90 4013 10 90 6006 90 00 7311 00 10
3001 20 00 3705 10 00 4013 20 00 6305 10 00 7311 00 20
3001 90 10 3705 20 00 4013 90 00 6305 20 00 7311 00 9010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/43
7320 10 00 8408 10 00 8413 70 22 8419 90 20 8426 49 00
7320 20 00 8408 20 10 8413 70 23 8420 10 00 8426 91 00
7320 90 00 8408 20 90 8413 70 29 8420 91 00 8426 99 00
8207 13 00 8408 90 00 8413 70 31 8420 99 00 8427 10 10
8207 19 10 8409 10 00 8413 70 39 8421 11 00 8427 10 20
8207 19 90 8409 91 10 8413 70 40 8421 12 00 8427 10 30
8207 20 00 8409 91 90 8413 70 51 8421 19 10 8427 10 40
8207 30 00 8409 99 00 8413 70 52 8421 19 90 8427 20 10
8207 40 00 8410 11 00 8413 70 59 8421 21 00 8427 20 20
8207 50 00 8410 12 00 8413 70 61 8421 22 00 8427 20 30
8207 60 00 8410 13 00 8413 70 62 8421 29 90 8427 20 40
8207 70 00 8410 90 00 8413 70 63 8421 39 00 8427 20 50
8207 80 00 8411 11 00 8413 70 69 8421 91 00 8427 20 60
8207 90 00 8411 12 00 8413 70 70 8421 99 00 8427 90 10
8208 10 00 8411 21 00 8413 70 90 8422 11 20 8427 90 90
8208 20 00 8411 22 00 8413 81 00 8422 19 00 8428 10 00
8208 30 00 8411 81 00 8413 82 00 8422 20 00 8428 20 00
8208 40 00 8411 82 00 8413 91 00 8422 30 00 8428 31 00
8208 90 00 8411 91 00 8413 92 00 8422 40 00 8428 32 00
8401 10 00 8411 99 00 8414 10 00 8422 90 90 8428 33 00
8401 20 00 8412 10 00 8414 20 00 8423 20 00 8428 39 00
8401 30 00 8412 21 00 8414 30 00 8423 30 00 8428 40 00
8401 40 00 8412 29 00 8414 40 00 8423 82 00 8428 50 00
8402 11 00 8412 31 00 8415 10 20 8423 89 00 8428 60 00
8402 12 00 8412 39 00 8415 81 10 8424 20 00 8428 90 10
8402 19 00 8412 80 00 8415 82 10 8424 30 00 8428 90 90
8402 20 00 8412 90 00 8415 83 10 8424 81 00 8429 11 00
8402 90 00 8413 11 10 8416 10 00 8424 89 00 8429 19 00
8404 10 10 8413 11 90 8416 20 00 8424 90 00 8429 20 00
8404 20 00 8413 19 10 8416 30 00 8425 11 00 8429 30 00
8404 90 00 8413 19 90 8416 90 00 8425 19 00 8429 40 00
8405 10 00 8413 20 00 8417 10 00 8425 20 00 8429 51 00
8405 90 00 8413 30 00 8417 20 00 8425 31 00 8429 52 00
8406 10 00 8413 40 00 8417 80 00 8425 39 00 8429 59 00
8406 81 00 8413 50 00 8417 90 00 8425 41 00 8430 10 00
8406 82 00 8413 60 00 8419 11 10 8425 42 00 8430 20 00
8406 90 00 8413 70 11 8419 20 00 8425 49 00 8430 31 00
8407 10 00 8413 70 12 8419 31 00 8426 11 00 8430 39 00
8407 29 00 8413 70 13 8419 32 00 8426 12 00 8430 41 00
8407 31 00 8413 70 14 8419 39 00 8426 19 00 8430 49 00
8407 32 00 8413 70 15 8419 40 00 8426 20 00 8430 50 00
8407 33 00 8413 70 16 8419 50 00 8426 30 00 8430 61 00
8407 34 00 8413 70 17 8419 60 00 8426 41 10 8430 69 00
8407 90 00 8413 70 21 8419 81 12 8426 41 90 8431 10 00L 265/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
8431 20 00 8438 80 00 8447 11 00 8456 30 00 8463 20 00
8431 31 00 8438 90 00 8447 12 00 8456 91 00 8463 30 00
8431 39 00 8439 10 00 8447 20 00 8456 99 00 8463 90 00
8431 41 00 8439 20 00 8447 90 00 8457 10 00 8464 10 00
8431 42 00 8439 30 00 8448 11 00 8457 20 00 8464 20 00
8431 43 00 8439 91 00 8448 19 00 8457 30 00 8464 90 00
8431 49 00 8439 99 00 8448 20 00 8458 11 00 8465 10 00
8432 10 00 8440 10 00 8448 31 00 8458 19 00 8465 91 00
8432 21 00 8440 90 00 8448 32 00 8458 91 00 8465 92 00
8432 29 00 8441 10 00 8448 33 00 8458 99 00 8465 93 00
8432 30 00 8441 20 00 8448 39 00 8459 10 00 8465 94 00
8432 40 00 8441 30 00 8448 41 00 8459 21 00 8465 95 00
8432 80 00 8441 40 00 8448 42 00 8459 29 00 8465 96 00
8432 90 00 8441 80 00 8448 49 00 8459 31 00 8465 99 00
8433 20 00 8441 90 00 8448 51 00 8459 39 00 8466 10 00
8433 30 00 8442 10 00 8448 59 00 8459 40 00 8466 20 00
8433 40 00 8442 20 00 8449 00 00 8459 51 00 8466 30 00
8433 51 00 8442 30 00 8450 11 20 8459 59 00 8466 91 00
8433 52 00 8442 40 00 8450 12 20 8459 61 00 8466 92 00
8433 53 00 8442 50 00 8450 19 12 8459 69 00 8466 93 00
8433 59 00 8443 11 00 8450 19 92 8459 70 00 8466 94 00
8433 60 10 8443 12 00 8450 20 00 8460 11 00 8467 11 00
8433 60 90 8443 19 00 8450 90 90 8460 19 00 8467 19 00
8433 90 00 8443 21 00 8451 10 00 8460 21 00 8467 21 00
8434 10 00 8443 29 00 8451 29 00 8460 29 00 8467 22 00
8434 20 00 8443 30 00 8451 40 00 8460 31 00 8467 29 00
8434 90 00 8443 40 00 8451 50 00 8460 39 00 8467 81 00
8435 10 00 8443 51 00 8451 80 00 8460 40 00 8467 89 00
8435 90 00 8443 59 00 8451 90 90 8460 90 00 8467 91 00
8436 10 00 8443 60 00 8453 10 00 8461 20 10 8467 92 00
8436 21 00 8443 90 00 8453 20 00 8461 20 20 8467 99 00
8436 29 00 8444 00 00 8453 80 00 8461 30 00 8468 10 00
8436 80 00 8445 11 00 8453 90 00 8461 40 00 8468 20 00
8436 91 00 8445 12 00 8454 10 00 8461 90 00 8468 80 00
8436 99 00 8445 13 00 8454 20 00 8462 10 00 8468 90 00
8437 10 00 8445 19 00 8454 30 00 8462 21 00 8471 10 00
8437 80 00 8445 20 00 8454 90 00 8462 29 00 8471 30 00
8437 90 00 8445 30 00 8455 10 00 8462 31 00 8471 41 00
8438 10 00 8445 40 00 8455 21 00 8462 39 00 8471 49 00
8438 20 00 8445 90 00 8455 22 00 8462 41 00 8471 50 00
8438 30 00 8446 10 00 8455 30 00 8462 49 00 8471 60 00
8438 40 00 8446 21 00 8455 90 00 8462 91 00 8471 70 00
8438 50 00 8446 29 00 8456 10 00 8462 99 00 8471 80 00
8438 60 00 8446 30 00 8456 20 00 8463 10 00 8471 90 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/45
8472 90 10 8481 30 00 8503 00 00 8517 80 00 8543 11 00
8473 30 00 8481 40 00 8504 10 10 8517 90 00 8543 20 00
8474 10 00 8482 10 00 8504 10 90 8530 90 00 8543 30 00
8474 20 00 8482 20 00 8504 21 00 8532 10 00 8543 40 00
8474 31 00 8482 30 00 8504 22 10 8532 21 00 8543 81 00
8474 32 00 8482 40 00 8504 22 20 8532 22 00 8543 89 00
8474 39 00 8482 50 00 8504 23 00 8532 23 00 8543 90 00
8474 80 00 8482 80 00 8504 31 00 8532 24 00 8544 11 10
8474 90 00 8482 91 00 8504 32 00 8532 25 00 8544 11 90
8475 10 00 8482 99 00 8504 33 00 8532 29 00 8544 19 10
8475 21 00 8483 10 00 8504 34 00 8532 30 00 8544 19 90
8475 29 00 8483 20 00 8504 40 00 8532 90 00 8544 20 00
8475 90 00 8483 30 00 8504 50 00 8533 10 00 8544 30 00
8477 10 00 8483 40 00 8504 90 00 8533 21 00 8544 41 00
8477 20 00 8483 50 00 8505 11 00 8533 29 00 8544 49 00
8477 30 00 8483 60 00 8505 19 00 8533 31 00 8544 51 00
8477 40 00 8483 90 00 8505 20 10 8533 39 00 8544 59 00
8477 51 00 8484 10 00 8505 20 20 8533 40 00 8544 60 00
8477 59 00 8484 20 00 8505 30 00 8533 90 00 8544 70 00
8477 80 00 8484 90 00 8505 90 10 8534 00 00 8545 11 00
8477 90 00 8485 10 00 8505 90 90 8540 20 00 8545 19 00
8478 10 00 8485 90 00 8507 90 00 8540 40 00 8545 20 00
8478 90 00 8501 10 00 8512 10 00 8540 50 00 8545 90 00
8479 10 00 8501 31 00 8512 20 00 8540 60 00 8546 10 00
8479 20 00 8501 32 00 8512 30 00 8540 71 00 8546 20 00
8479 30 00 8501 33 00 8512 40 00 8540 72 00 8546 90 00
8479 40 00 8501 34 00 8514 30 00 8540 79 00 8547 10 00
8479 50 00 8501 40 00 8514 40 00 8540 81 00 8547 20 00
8479 60 00 8501 51 00 8514 90 00 8540 89 00 8547 90 00
8479 81 00 8501 52 00 8515 11 00 8540 91 00 8601 10 00
8479 82 00 8501 53 00 8515 19 00 8540 99 00 8601 20 00
8479 89 00 8501 61 10 8515 21 00 8541 10 00 8602 10 00
8479 90 00 8501 61 20 8515 29 00 8541 21 00 8602 90 00
8480 10 00 8501 62 00 8515 31 00 8541 29 00 8603 10 00
8480 20 00 8501 63 00 8515 39 00 8541 30 00 8603 90 00
8480 30 00 8501 64 00 8515 80 00 8541 40 00 8604 00 00
8480 41 00 8502 11 00 8515 90 00 8541 50 00 8605 00 00
8480 49 00 8502 12 00 8517 19 90 8541 60 00 8606 10 00
8480 50 00 8502 13 00 8517 21 00 8541 90 00 8606 20 00
8480 60 00 8502 20 10 8517 22 00 8542 10 00 8606 30 00
8480 71 00 8502 20 90 8517 30 10 8542 21 00 8606 91 00
8480 79 00 8502 31 00 8517 30 20 8542 60 00 8606 92 00
8481 10 30 8502 39 00 8517 30 30 8542 70 00 8606 99 00
8481 20 00 8502 40 00 8517 50 00 8542 90 00 8607 11 00L 265/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
8607 12 00 8704 21 30 8708 99 90 9017 80 00 9027 40 00
8607 19 00 8704 21 90 8709 19 00 9017 90 00 9027 50 00
8607 21 00 8704 22 10 8709 90 00 9018 11 00 9027 80 00
8607 29 00 8704 22 20 8716 20 00 9018 12 00 9027 90 00
8607 30 00 8704 22 90 8716 31 00 9018 13 00 9028 10 00
8607 91 00 8704 23 10 8716 39 00 9018 14 00 9028 20 10
8607 99 00 8704 23 90 8716 40 00 9018 19 00 9028 20 20
8608 00 10 8704 31 10 8902 00 10 9018 20 00 9028 30 00
8608 00 20 8704 31 20 8902 00 90 9018 32 00 9028 90 00
8608 00 50 8704 31 90 9001 10 00 9018 39 90 9029 10 00
8609 00 00 8704 32 10 9001 30 00 9018 41 00
9029 20 00
8701 10 10 8704 32 90 9001 50 00 9018 49 10
9029 90 00
8701 10 90 8704 90 00 9001 90 00 9018 49 90
9030 10 00
8701 20 10 8705 10 00 9002 11 00 9018 50 00
9030 20 00
8701 20 90 8705 20 00 9007 19 10 9018 90 20
9030 31 00
8701 30 10 8705 30 00 9010 10 00 9018 90 40
9030 39 00
8701 30 20 8705 40 00 9010 41 00 9018 90 90
9030 40 00
8701 30 90 8705 90 10 9010 42 00 9019 10 00
9030 82 00
8701 90 10 8705 90 90 9010 49 00 9019 20 00
9030 83 00
8701 90 20 8706 00 10 9010 50 00 9020 00 00
9030 89 00
8701 90 30 8706 00 20 9010 60 00 9021 21 90
9030 90 00
8701 90 90 8706 00 30 9010 90 00 9022 12 00
9031 10 00
8702 10 10 8706 00 90 9011 10 00 9022 13 00
9031 20 00
8702 90 10 8707 10 00 9011 20 00 9022 14 00
9031 30 00
8703 21 10 8707 90 10 9011 80 00 9022 19 00
9031 41 00
8703 22 10 8707 90 90 9011 90 00 9022 21 00
9031 49 00
8703 22 30 8708 10 00 9012 10 00 9022 29 00
9031 80 00
8703 23 10 8708 21 00 9012 90 00 9022 30 00
9031 90 00
8703 23 10 8708 29 00 9013 10 00 9022 90 00
9032 10 00
8703 23 20 8708 31 00 9013 20 00 9023 00 00
9032 20 00
8703 23 30 8708 39 10 9013 80 10 9024 10 00
9032 81 00
8703 24 10 8708 39 90 9014 10 00 9024 80 00
9032 89 00
8703 24 30 8708 40 00 9014 20 00 9024 90 00
9032 90 00
8703 31 10 8708 50 00 9014 80 00 9025 11 00
9033 00 00
8703 31 10 8708 60 00 9014 90 00 9025 19 00
9101 11 00
8703 31 30 8708 70 00 9015 10 00 9025 80 00
9109 11 00
8703 32 10 8708 80 00 9015 20 00 9025 90 00
8703 32 30 8708 91 00 9015 30 00 9026 10 00 9112 20 90
8703 33 10 8708 92 00 9015 40 00 9026 20 00 9112 90 10
8703 33 30 8708 93 10 9015 80 00 9026 80 00 9306 10 00
8704 10 10 8708 93 90 9015 90 00 9026 90 00 9504 40 00
8704 10 90 8708 94 00 9017 10 00 9027 10 00 9508 90 00
8704 21 10 8708 99 10 9017 20 00 9027 20 00 9542 29 00
8704 21 20 8708 99 20 9017 30 00 9027 30 00 9613 90 0010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/47
ANNEX 4
List of products referred to in Article 17(4)
Tariff heading
(Algerian customs tariff)
0401.1000 0813.2000 2009.3000 3923.2100 6104.1100
0401.2010 1101.0000 2009.4000 3923.2900 6104.1200
0401.2020 1103.1120 2009.5000 3925.9000 6104.1300
0401.3010 1105.1000 2009.6000 3926.1000 6104.1900
0401.3020 1105.2000 2009.7000 4802.5600 6104.2100
0403.1000 1512.1900 2009.8090 4802.6200 6104.2200
0405.1000 1517.1000 2009.9000 4814.2000 6104.2300
0406.2000 1604.1300 2102.1000 4817.1000 6104.2900
0406.3000 1604.1400 2102.2000 4818.1000 6104.3100
0406.4000 1604.1600 2102.3000 4818.3000 6104.3200
0406.9090 1704.1000 2103.3090 4818.4020 6104.3300
0407.0020 1806.3100 2103.9010 4820.2000 6104.3900
0409.0000 1806.3200 2103.9090 5407.1000 6104.4100
0701.9000 1806.9000 2104.1000 5702.9200 6104.4200
0703.2000 1901.2000 2104.2000 5703.1000 6104.4300
0710.1000 1902.1900 2106.9090 5703.2000 6104.4400
0710.2100 1902.2000 2201.1000 5805.0000 6104.4900
0710.2200 1902.3000 2201.9000 6101.1000 6104.5100
0710.2900 1902.4000 2202.1000 6101.2000 6104.5200
0710.3000 1905.3100 2202.9000 6101.3000 6104.5300
0710.4000 1905.3900 2203.0000 6101.9000 6104.5900
0710.8000 1905.4010 2204.1000 6102.1000 6104.6100
0710.9000 1905.4090 2204.2100 6102.2000 6104.6200
0711.2000 1905.9090 2204.2900 6102.3000 6104.6300
0711.3000 2001.1000 2204.3000 6102.9010 6104.6900
0711.4000 2001.9010 2209.0000 6102.9090 6105.1000
0712.9010 2001.9020 2828.9030 6103.1100 6105.2000
0712.9090 2001.9090 3303.0010 6103.1200 6105.9000
0801.1100 2002.9010 3303.0020 6103.1900 6106.1000
0801.1900 2002.9020 3303.0030 6103.2100 6106.2000
0801.2100 2005.2000 3303.0040 6103.2200 6106.9000
0801.2200 2005.4000 3304.1000 6103.2300 6107.1100
0802.1200 2005.5100 3305.9000 6103.2900 6107.1200
0802.3100 2005.5900 3307.1000 6103.3100 6107.1900
0802.3200 2005.9000 3307.2000 6103.3200 6107.2100
0806.1000 2006.0000 3307.3000 6103.3300 6107.2200
0806.2000 2007.1000 3307.9000 6103.3900 6107.2900
0808.1000 2007.9100 3401.1100 6103.4100 6108.1100
0808.2000 2007.9900 3401.1990 6103.4200 6108.1900
0812.9000 2009.1900 3402.2000 6103.4300 6108.2100
0813.1000 2009.2000 3605.0000 6103.4900 6108.2200L 265/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
6108.2900 6203.2200 6207.1100 6404.1100 8418.3000
6108.3100 6203.2300 6207.1900 6404.1900 8419.1190
6108.3200 6203.2900 6207.2100 6404.2000 8419.8119
6108.3910 6203.3100 6207.2200 6405.1000 8422.1190
6108.3990 6203.3200 6207.2900 6405.2000 8405.1190
6109.1000 6203.3300 6207.9100 6405.9000 8450.1290
6109.9000 6203.3900 6208.1100 6908.1000 8450.1919
6110.1100 6203.4100 6208.1900 6908.9000 8450.1999
6110.1200 6203.4200 6208.2100 6911.1000 8452.1090
6110.1900 6203.4300 6208.2200 6911.9000 8481.8010
6110.2000 6203.4900 6208.2900 7003.1200 8481.9000
6110.3000 6204.1100 6211.1100 7007.1110 8501.4000
6110.9000 6204.1200 6211.1200 7007.2110 8501.5100
6111.1000 6204.1300 6211.3210 7013.1000 8504.1010
6111.2000 6204.1900 6211.3900 7013.2900 8506.1000
6111.3000 6204.2100 6212.1000 7013.3200 8507.1000
6111.9000 6204.2200 6212.2000 7013.3900 8509.4000
6112.1100 6204.2300 6213.9000 7020.0010 8516.1000
6112.1200 6204.2900 6214.1000 7318.1100 8516.3100
6112.1900 6204.3100 6214.9000 7318.1200 8516.4000
6112.3100 6204.3200 6215.9000 7318.1500 8516.7100
6112.3900 6204.3300 6301.2000 7318.1600 8517.1100
6112.4100 6204.3900 6301.3000 7318.1900 8517.1990
6112.4900 6204.4100 6301.4000 7318.2100 8527.1300
6115.1100 6204.4200 6301.9000 7318.2200 8527.2100
6115.1200 6204.4300 6302.2100 7318.2300 8527.3130
6115.1900 6204.4400 6302.2200 7318.2900 8528.1290
6115.2000 6204.5100 6302.2900 7321.1119 8528.1390
6115.9100 6204.5200 6304.1900 7322.1100 8528.2190
6115.9200 6204.5300 6304.9900 7322.1900 8529.1060
6115.9300 6204.5900 6309.0000 7323.9100 8529.1070
6115.9900 6204.6100 6401.1000 7323.9200 8533.1000
6201.1100 6204.6200 6401.9900 7323.9300 8536.5010
6201.1200 6204.6300 6402.1900 7323.9400 8536.5090
6201.1300 6204.6900 6402.2000 7323.9900 8536.6190
6201.1900 6205.1000 6402.3000 7324.1000 8536.6910
6202.1100 6205.2000 6402.9900 7615.1900 8536.6990
6202.1200 6205.3000 6403.1900 8414.5110 8536.9020
6202.1300 6205.9000 6403.2000 8415.1090 8539.2200
6202.1900 6206.1000 6403.4000 8415.8190 8543.8900
6203.1100 6206.2000 6403.5100 8418.1019 8711.1090
6203.1200 6206.3000 6403.5900 8418.2119 9001.4000
6203.1900 6206.4000 6403.9100 8418.2219 9006.5200
6203.2100 6206.9000 6403.9900 8418.2919 9006.530010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/49
9028.2010 9403.5000 9405.1000 9606.2200 9608.9900
9401.6100 9403.6000 9405.4000 9606.2900
9609.1000
9401.6900 9403.8000 9405.9100 9607.1100
9617.0000
9401.7100 9404.1000 9405.9900 9607.1900
9401.7900 9404.2900 9606.2100 9608.1000L 265/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
ANNEX 5
IMPLEMENTING RULES FOR ARTICLE 41
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. Objectives
Cases relating to practices contrary to Article 41(1)(a) or (b) of this Agreement shall be dealt with by applying the appro-
priate legislation, in order to avoid adverse effects on trade and economic development and the possible negative impact
that such practices may have on the other Party’s important interests.
The competence of the Parties’ competition authorities to deal with these cases shall flow from the existing rules of their
respective competition laws, including where these rules are applied to undertakings located outside their territory, but
whose activities affect that territory.
The purpose of these rules is to promote cooperation and coordination between the Parties in the application of their
competition laws in order to ensure that restrictions on competition do not block or cancel out the benefits which should
be ensured following the progressive liberalisation of trade between the European Community and Algeria.
2. Definitions
For the purposes of these rules:
(a) ‘competition law’ shall mean:
(i) for the European Community (the Community), Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty, Council Regulation (EEC)
No 4064/89 and related secondary legislation adopted by the Community;
(ii) For Algeria, Competition Decree No 95-06 of 23 Sha’ban 1415 corresponding to 25 January 1995, and its
implementing provisions;
(iii) and any amendments to or repeal of those laws;
(b) ‘competition authority’ shall mean:
(i) for the Community: the Commission of the European Community as to its responsibilities pursuant to the
competition law of the Community;
(ii) for Algeria: the Conseil de la Concurrence (Competition Board);
(c) ‘enforcement activity’ shall mean any application of competition law by way of investigation or proceeding con-
ducted by the competition authority of a Party, which may result in penalties or remedies;
(d) ‘anti-competitive activity’ and ‘conduct and practices which restrict competition’ shall mean any conduct or trans-
action that is impermissible under the competition laws of a Party and may be subject to penalties or remedies.
CHAPTER II
COOPERATION AND COORDINATION
3. Notification
3.1. Each Party’s competition authority shall notify the other of its enforcement activities where:
(a) the notifying Party considers them relevant to enforcement activities of the other Party;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/51
(b) they may significantly affect important interests of the other Party;
(c) they relate to restrictions on competition which may directly and substantially affect the territory of the other
Party;
(d) they involve anti-competitive activities carried out mainly in the territory of the other Party;
and
(e) they condition or prohibit action in the territory of the other Party.
3.2. To the extent possible, and provided that this is not contrary to the Parties’ competition laws and does not adversely
affect any investigation being carried out, notification shall take place during the initial phase of the procedure, to
enable the notified competition authority to express its opinion. The notified authority shall give due consideration to
the opinions received when taking decisions.
3.3. The notifications provided for in Article 3.1 of this Chapter shall be detailed enough to permit an evaluation in the
light of the interests of the other Party.
3.4. The Parties undertake to give the above notification wherever possible, depending on available administrative resources.
4. Exchange of information and confidentiality
4.1. The Parties shall exchange information which will facilitate the effective application of their respective competition
laws and promote a better understanding of their respective legal frameworks.
4.2. The exchange of information shall be subject to the standards of confidentiality applicable under the law of each Party.
Confidential information whose dissemination is expressly prohibited or which, if disseminated, could adversely affect
the Parties, shall not be provided without the express consent of the source of the information. Each competition
authority shall maintain, to the fullest extent possible, the confidentiality of any information provided to it in confi-
dence by the other competition authority under the rules and shall oppose, to the fullest extent possible, any appli-
cation for disclosure of such information by a third party that is not authorised by the competition authority that
supplied the information.
5. Coordination of enforcement activities
5.1. Each competition authority may notify the other of its willingness to coordinate enforcement activities with respect to
a specific case. This coordination shall not prevent the competition authorities from taking autonomous decisions.
5.2. In determining the extent of coordination, the competition authorities shall consider:
(a) the results which coordination could produce;
(b) the additional information to be obtained;
(c) the reduction in costs for the competition authorities and the economic agents involved,
and
(d) the applicable deadlines under their respective legislations.
6. Consultation when important interests of one Party are adversely affected in the territory of the other Party
6.1. A competition authority which considers that one or more undertakings situated in one Party’s territory are or have
been engaged in anti-competitive activities of whatever origin that are substantially and adversely affecting the inter-
ests of the Party it represents may request consultations with the other competition authority, recognising that enter-
ing into such consultations is without prejudice to any action under its competition laws and to the full freedom of
ultimate decision of the competition authority concerned. The requested competition authority may take the appro-
priate remedial action, in the light of the legislation in force.L 265/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
6.2. Each Party shall, wherever possible and in accordance with its own legislation, take into consideration the important
interests of the other Party in the course of its enforcement activities. A competition authority which considers that an
enforcement activity being conducted by the competition authority of the other Party under its competition law may
affect the important interests of the Party it represents should transmit its views on the matter to or request consul-
tations with the other competition authority. Without prejudice to the continuation of its action under its competi-
tion laws or to its full freedom of ultimate decision, the competition authority so addressed should give full and
sympathetic consideration to the views expressed by the requesting competition authority, and in particular to any
suggestions as to alternative means of fulfilling the needs and objectives of the enforcement activity.
7. Technical cooperation
7.1. The Parties shall be open to technical cooperation in order to enable them to take advantage of their respective expe-
rience and to strengthen the implementation of their competition law and policies.
7.2. Cooperation shall include the following activities:
(a) training for officials, to enable them to gain practical experience;
(b) seminars, in particular for civil servants;
and
(c) studies of competition law and policies, with a view to supporting their development.
8. Modification and update of the rules
The Association Committee may amend these rules.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/53
ANNEX 6
INTELLECTUAL, INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTY
1. Before the end of the fourth year from the entry into force of this Agreement, Algeria and the European Communities
and/or their Member States shall, to the extent they have not yet done so, accede to, and ensure an adequate and effec-
tive implementation of the obligations arising from, the following multilateral conventions:
— International Convention for the Protection of Performers, Producers of Phonograms and Broadcasting Organiza-
tions (Rome, 1961), known as the ‘Rome Convention’;
— Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Micro-organisms for the Purposes of Patent Pro-
cedure (1977, amended 1980), known as the ‘Budapest Treaty’;
— Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (Marrakech, 15 April 1994), taking into con-
sideration the transitional period provided for developing countries in Article 65 of that Agreement;
— Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement concerning the International Registration of Marks (1989), known as
‘The Protocol relating to the Madrid Agreement’;
— Trademark Law Treaty (Geneva 1994);
— WIPO Copyright Treaty (Geneva, 1996);
— WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (Geneva, 1996).
2. Both Parties shall continue to ensure an adequate and effective implementation of the obligations arising from the fol-
lowing multilateral conventions:
— Nice Agreement concerning the International Classification of Goods and Services for the purposes of the Regis-
tration of Marks (Geneva 1977), known as the ‘Nice Agreement’;
— Patent Cooperation Treaty (1970, amended in 1979 and modified in 1984);
— Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property in the 1967 Act of Stockholm (Paris Union), hereafter
referred to as the ‘Paris Convention’;
— Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works in the Act of Paris of 24 July 1971, known as
the ‘Berne Convention’;
— Madrid Agreement concerning the International Registration of Marks in the 1969 Act of Stockholm (Madrid
Union), known as ‘Madrid Agreement’;
and
meanwhile, the Contacting Parties express their attachment to observing the obligations flowing from the above mul-
tilateral conventions. The Association Committee may decide that this paragraph shall apply to other multilateral con-
ventions in this field.
3. By the end of the fifth year after the entry into force of this Agreement, Algeria and the European Community and/or its
Member States shall, to the extent they have not yet done so, accede to, and ensure an adequate and effective imple-
mentation of the obligations arising from, the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants
(Geneva Act, 1991), known as ‘UPOV’.
Accession to this Convention may be replaced by the implementation of an adequate and effective sui generis system of
protection of plant varieties if both parties agree.L 265/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 1
On the arrangements applying to imports into the Community of agricultural
products originating in Algeria
Article 1
1. The products listed in Annex 1 of the present protocol, originating in Algeria, shall be admitted for
import into the Community in accordance with the conditions set out below and in the Annex.
2. Import duties shall be either eliminated or reduced by the percentage indicated in respect of each prod-
uct in column (a).
For certain products, for which the Common Customs Tariff provides for the application of an ad valorem duty
and a specific duty, the rate of reduction indicated in column (a) shall apply only to the ad valorem duty.
3. The customs duties shall be eliminated in respect of certain products within the limits of the tariff quotas
shown against them in column (b).
The Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of the quantities imported in excess of the quotas shall be
applied without reduction.
4. The reference quantities fixed in respect of certain other products exempt from customs duties are shown
in column (c).
Should the volume of imports of one of the products exceed the reference quantity for any given reference
year, the Community may, having regard to an annual review of trade flows which it shall carry out, make the
product in question subject to a Community tariff quota for the following reference year, the volume of which
shall be equal to the reference quantity. In such a case, for quantities imported in excess of the quota, the Com-
mon Customs Tariff duty shall be applied in full.
Article 2
For the first year of application, the volumes of tariff quotas shall be calculated as a pro rata of the basic vol-
umes, taking into account the part of the period elapsed before the date of entry into force of this agreement.
Article 3
1. Subject to paragraph 2, rates of preferential duty shall be rounded down to the first decimal place.
2. Where the result of calculating the rate of preferential duty in application of paragraph 1 is one of the
following, the preferential rate shall be considered a full exemption:
(a) 1 % or less in the case of ad valorem duties,
or
(b) EUR 1 or less per individual amount in the case of specific duties.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/55
Article 4
1. Wines of fresh grapes originating in Algeria and bearing a designation of origin must be accompanied
by a certificate indicating their origin in accordance with the model given in Annex 2 to this Protocol or by
documents V I 1 or V I 2 completed in accordance with Article 25 of Commission Regulation (EC)
No 883/2001 of 24 April 2001 laying down detailed rules for implementing Council Regulation (EC)
No 1493/1999 as regards trade with third countries in products in the wine sector (OJ L 128, 10.5.2001, p. 1).
2. In accordance with Algerian law, the provision of paragraph 1 applies to wines with the following des-
ignations of origin: Aïn Bessem-Bouira, Médéa, Coteaux du Zaccar, Dahra, Coteaux de Mascara, Monts du Tes-
salah, and Coteaux de Tlemcen.L 265/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 1 ANNEX 1
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
0101 90 19 Live horses, other than pure-bred animals, for slaughter 100
0104 10 30 Live sheep, other than pure-bred breeding animals 100
0104 10 80
0104 20 90 Live goats, other than pure-bred breeding animals 100
ex 0204 Meat of sheep or goats, fresh, chilled or frozen, other than domes- 100 (8)
tic goat’s meat
0205 00 Meat of horses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh, chilled or frozen 100
0208 Other meat and edible meat offal, fresh, chilled or frozen 100
0409 00 00 Natural honey 100 100 (3)
0603 Cut flowers and flower buds of a kind suitable for bouquets or for 100 100
ornamental purposes, fresh, dried, dyed, bleached, impregnated or
otherwise prepared
0604 Foliage, branches and other parts of plants, without flowers or 100 100
flower buds, and grasses, mosses and lichens, being goods of a kind
suitable for bouquets or ornamental purposes, fresh, dried, dyed,
bleached, impregnated or otherwise prepared
0701 90 50 New potatoes, from 1 January to 31 March 100 5 000 (4)
0702 00 00 Tomatoes, from 15 October to 30 April 100 (5)
0703 10 19 Onions, fresh or chilled 100
0703 10 90 Shallots, fresh or chilled 100
0703 90 00 Leeks and other alliaceous vegetables, fresh or chilled 100
0704 10 00 Cauliflowers and headed broccoli, from 1 January to 14 April,
0704 10 00 Cauliflowers and headed broccoli, from 1 to 31 December
100 1 000 Art 1(4)
0704 20 00 Brussels sprouts
0704 90 Other cabbages, kohlrabi, kale and similar edible brassicas
0706 10 00 Carrots and turnips, from 1 January to 31 March 100
0707 00 Cucumbers and gherkins from 1 November to 31 May, fresh 100 (5)
or chilled
0708 10 00 Peas (Pisum sativum), from 1 September to 30 April 100
0708 20 00 Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.) from 1 November to 30 April, 100
fresh or chilled
ex 0708 90 00 Broad beans 100
0709 10 00 Globe artichokes from 1 October to 31 March, fresh or chilled 100 (5)
0709 20 00 Fresh or chilled asparagus 100
0709 30 00 Aubergines, fresh or chilled, from 1 December to 30 June 100
0709 52 00 Fresh or chilled truffles 100 100 Art 1(4)
0709 60 10 Sweet peppers, from 1 November to 31 May 100
0709 60 99 Other fresh or chilled fruits of the genus Capsicum or Pimenta 10010.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/57
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
0709 90 70 Courgettes from 1 December to 31 March, fresh or chilled 100 (5)
ex 0709 90 90 Wild onions (Muscari comosum) from 15 February to 15 May 100
0710 80 59 Other fruits of the genus Capsicum or Pimenta, uncooked by 100
steaming or boiling in water, frozen
0711 20 10 Olives, for uses other than the production of oil 100 (6)
0711 30 00 Capers 100
0711 90 10 Fruits of the genus Capsicum or Pimenta, excluding sweet peppers, 100
provisionally preserved
0713 10 10 Peas (Pisum sativum) for sowing 100
ex 0713 Dried legumious vegetables, not for sowing 100
ex 0804 10 00 Dates in immediate containers of a net capacity not exceeding 100
35 kg
0804 20 10 Fresh figs 100
0804 20 90 Dried figs 100
0804 40 Fresh or dried avocados 100
ex 0805 10 Fresh oranges 100 (5)
ex 0805 20 Fresh mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas); fresh 100 (5)
clementines, wilkings and similar citrus hybrids
ex 0805 50 10 Fresh lemons 100 (5)
0805 40 00 Grapefruit 100
ex 0806 10 10 Fresh table grapes from 15 November to 15 July, other than the 100 (5)
Emperor variety (Vitis vinifera c.v.)
0807 11 00 Watermelons, from 1 April to 15 June 100
0807 19 00 Melons, from 1 November to 31 May 100
0809 10 00 Apricots 100 1 000 (5)
0809 40 05 Plums, from 1 November to 15 June 100 (5)
0810 10 00 Strawberries, from 1 November to 31 March 100 500
0810 20 10 Raspberries, from 15 May to 15 June 100
ex 0810 90 95 Medlars and prickly pears 100
ex 0812 90 20 Fine ground oranges, provisionally preserved, but unsuitable in that 100
state for consumption
ex 0812 90 99 Fine ground citrus fruit, other than oranges, provisionally 100
preserved, but unsuitable in that state for consumption
0813 30 00 Dried apples 100
0904 20 30 Peppers, neither crushed not ground 100
0904 20 90 Peppers, crushed or ground 100
1209 99 99 Other seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used for sowing 100 (7)
1212 10 Locust beans, including locust bean seeds 100
ex 1302 20 Pectic substances and pectinates 100
1509 Olive oil and its fractions, whether or not refined, but not 100 1 000
chemically modified:
1509 10 10 – Lampante virgin olive oil
1509 10 90 – Other virgin oil
1509 90 00 – Other than virginL 265/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
1510 Other olive oils and their fractions, obtained solely from olives, 100 1 000
whether or not refined, but not chemically modified, including
blends of these oils or fractions with oils or fractions of heading
No 1509
1510 00 10 – Crude oils
1510 00 90 – Others
1512 19 91 Refined sunflower-seed oil 100 25 000
ex 2001 10 00 Cucumbers, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, with- 100
out added sugar
2001 90 20 Fruit of genus Capsicum, prepared or preserved by vinegar or ace- 100
tic acid (excl. sweet peppers and pimentos)
ex 2001 90 50 Mushrooms, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, with- 100
out added sugar
ex 2001 90 65 Olives, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, without 100
added sugar
ex 2001 90 70 Sweet peppers or pimentos, prepared or preserved by vinegar or 100
acetic acid, without added sugar
ex 2001 90 75 Red salad beetroot, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, 100
without added sugar
ex 2001 90 85 Red cabbages, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, 100
without added sugar
ex 2001 90 91 Tropical fruit and tropical nuts, prepared or preserved by vinegar 100
or acetic acid, without added sugar
ex 2001 90 93 Onions, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, without 100
added sugar
ex 2001 90 96 Other vegetables, fruits and other edible parts of plants, prepared 100
or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, without added sugar
2002 10 10 Peeled tomatoes, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar 100 300
or acetic acid
2002 90 31 Tomatoes prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or ace-
2002 90 39 tic acid, other than whole or in pieces, with a dry matter content
of not less than 12 % by weight 100 300
2002 90 91
2002 90 99
2003 10 20 Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus, prepared or preserved other- 100 (5)
2003 10 30 wise than by vinegar or acetic acid
2003 90 00 Other mushrooms, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vin- 100
egar or acetic acid
2003 20 00 Truffles, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic 100
acid
2004 10 99 Other potatoes, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar 100
or acetic acid, frozen
ex 2004 90 30 Capers and olives, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar 100
or acetic acid, frozen
2004 90 50 Peas (Pisum sativum) and green beans, prepared or preserved other- 100
wise than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/59
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
2004 90 98 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar
or acetic acid, frozen:
– Artichokes, asparagus, carrots and mixtures 100
– Others 50
2005 10 00 Homogenised vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by
vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen:
– Asparagus, carrots and mixtures 100 200 Art 1(4)
– Others 100 200 Art 1(4)
2005 20 20 Potatoes, thinly sliced, cooked in fat or oil, whether or not salted 100
or flavoured, in airtight packings, suitable for direct consumption
2005 20 80 Other potatoes, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar 100
or acetic acid, not frozen
2005 40 00 Peas (Pisum Sativum), prepared or preserved otherwise than by vin- 100
egar or acetic acid, not frozen
2005 51 00 Beans, shelled, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or 100 200 Art 1(4)
acetic acid, not frozen
2005 59 00 Other beans (Vigna spp,. Phaseolus spp.), prepared or preserved oth- 100
erwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen
2005 60 00 Asparagus, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or ace- 100 200 Art 1(4)
tic acid, not frozen
2005 70 Olives, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic 100
acid, not frozen
2005 90 10 Fruit of the genus Capsicum, other than sweet peppers or pimen- 100
tos, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid,
not frozen
2005 90 30 Capers, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic 100
acid, not frozen
2005 90 50 Artichokes, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or 100 200 Art 1(4)
acetic acid, not frozen
2005 90 60 Carrots, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic 100 200 Art 1(4)
acid, not frozen
2005 90 70 Mixtures of vegetables, prepared or preserved otherwise than by 100 200 Art 1(4)
vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen
2005 90 80 Other vegetables, prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar 100 200 Art 1(4)
or acetic acid, not frozen
2007 10 91 Harmonised preparations of tropical fruit 100
2007 10 99 Other harmonised preparations 100
2007 91 90 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, purees and pastes, being cooked 100 200 Art 1(4)
preparations of citrus fruits, with a sugar content not exceeding
13 % by weight, other than harmonised preparations
2007 99 91 Apple purées and compotes, with a sugar content not exceeding 100 200 Art 1(4)
13 % by weightL 265/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
2007 99 93 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, purees and pastes, being cooked 100
preparations of tropical fruits or tropical nuts, with a sugar content
not exceeding 13 % by weight, other than harmonised preparations
2007 99 98 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, purees and pastes, being cooked 100 200 Art 1(4)
preparations of other fruits, with a sugar content not exceeding
13 % by weight, other than harmonised preparations
2008 30 51 Grapefruit segments, prepared or preserved without added spirit 100
2008 30 71
ex 2008 30 90
ex 2008 30 55 Mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas) prepared or pre- 100
ex 2008 30 75 served without added spirit, finely ground; clementines, wilkings
and other similar citrus hybrids, prepared or preserved without
added spirit, finely ground.
ex 2008 30 59 Oranges and lemons, prepared or preserved without added spirit, 100
finely ground
ex 2008 30 79 Oranges and lemons, prepared or preserved without added spirit, 100
finely ground
ex 2008 30 90 Finely ground citrus fruits, without either added spirit or added 100
sugar
ex 2008 30 90 Citrus fruit pulp, without either added spirit or added sugar 40
2008 50 61 Apricots prepared or preserved without either added spirit or 100
2008 50 69 added sugar
ex 2008 50 92 Apricot halves, prepared or preserved, without either added spirit 50
ex 2008 50 94 or added sugar, in immediate packings of a net content of 4,5 kg
or more
ex 2008 50 99 Apricot halves, prepared or preserved, without either added spirit 100
or added sugar, in immediate packings of a net content of less than
4,5 kg
ex 2008 70 92 Peach and nectarine halves, prepared or preserved, without either 50
ex 2008 70 94 added spirit or added sugar, in immediate packings of a net con-
tent of 4,5 kg or more
ex 2008 70 99 Peach and nectarine halves, prepared or preserved, without either 100
added spirit or added sugar, in immediate packings of a net con-
tent of less than 4,5 kg
2008 92 51
2008 92 59
2008 92 72 Mixed fruit prepared or preserved without either added spirit or
55
2008 92 74 added sugar
2008 92 76
2008 92 78
2009 11
2009 12 00 Orange juice 100 (5)
2009 19
2009 21 00 Grapefruit juice 100 (5)
2009 2910.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/61
Customs
Reference
duty rate Quantity
quantity
deduction (tonnes) (2) Specific
CN Code Description of goods (1) (tonnes)
(%) provisions
(a) (b) (c)
ex 2009 31 11 Juice of any citrus fruit other than lemons, of a Brix value not 100
ex 2009 31 19 exceeding 67, and of a value exceeding EUR 30 per 100kg net
weight
ex 2009 39 31
ex 2009 39 39
2009 50 Tomato juice 100 200
ex 2009 80 35
ex 2009 80 38
ex 2009 80 79
Apricot juice 100 200 (5)
ex 2009 80 86
ex 2009 80 89
ex 2009 80 99
ex 2204 Wine of fresh grapes 100 224 000 hl
ex 2204 21 Wines bearing one of the following designations of origin: Aïn
Bessem-Bouira, Médéa, Coteaux du Zaccar, Dahra, Coteaux de Mas-
cara, Monts du Tessalah, or Coteaux de Tlemcen, of an actual alco- 100 224 000 hl Art 4(1)
holic strength not exceeding 15 % vol, in containers holding 2 litres
or less
2301 Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal, of fish or of crus- 100
taceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates, unfit for human
consumption; greaves
2302 30 10 Bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the form of pel- 100
2302 30 90 lets, derived from the sifting, milling or other working of cereals
other then maize or rice
2302 40 10
2302 40 90
ex 2309 90 97 Mineral and vitamin complex, of a kind used in animal feeding 100
(1) Irrespective of the rules for the interpretation of the Combined Nomenclature, the wording of the product description must be considered to have merely indicative value,
since the applicability of the preferential arrangements is determined in the context of this Annex by the scope of the CN code. Where ex CN codes are referred to, the appli-
cability of the preferential arrangements is determined on the basis of the CN code and the corresponding description taken jointly.
(2) The Common Customs Tariff duties applied to quantities imported in excess of the tariff quotas are MFN duties.
(3) Commission Decision 94/278/EC (OJ L 120, 11.5.1994, p. 44).
(4) Once the application of Community rules for the potato sector has commenced, this period will be extended up to 15 April, and the reduction of the customs duty applicable
to quantities in excess of the tariff quota will be raised to 50 %.
(5) The reduction applies only to the ad valorem part of the duty.
(6) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions laid down in the relevant Community provisions (see Articles 291 to 300 of Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 (OJ L 253,
11.10.1993, p. 71) and subsequent amendments).
(7) This concession applies only to those seeds covered by the provisions of the directives on the marketing of seeds and plants.
(8) The reduction applies to both the ad valorem and the specific parts of the duty.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/63
PROTOCOL No 1: ANNEX 210.10.2005 Official Journal of the European Union L 265/65
ENL 265/66 Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EN10.10.2005 Official Journal of the European Union L 265/67
ENL 265/68 Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EN10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/69
PROTOCOL No 2
On the arrangements applying to imports into algeria of agricultural products originating in the
community
Sole article
The customs duties on import into the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria of the products originating in
the Community listed in the Annex shall not be higher than those shown in column (a), reduced by the per-
centage shown in column (b), within the limits of the tariff quotas shown in column (c).
Preferential
Reduction of
Applied tariff tariff
customs duty
(%) quotas
CN code Description (%)
(tonnes)
(a) (b) (c)
0102 10 00 Live bovine animals: pure-bred breeding animals 5 100 50
0102 90 Live bovine animals, other than pure-bred breeding ani- 5 100 5 000
mals
0105 11 Cockerels and hens (day-old chickens) 5 100 20
0105 12 Turkeys (day-old chickens) 5 100 100
0202 20 00 Frozen meat of bovine animals, cuts with bones 30 20 200
0202 30 00 Frozen meat of bovine animals, boneless 30 20 11 000
0203 Meat of swine, fresh, chilled or frozen 30 100 200
0207 11 00 Poultry meat not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled or frozen 30 50 2 500
0207 12 00 (Gallus domesticus)
0402 10 Milk and cream, concentrated or containing added sugar 5 100 30 000
or other sweetening matter, in powder, granules or other
solid forms, of a fat content by weight not exceeding
1,5 %
0402 21 Milk and cream, concentrated and not containing added 5 100 40 000
sugar or other sweetening matter, in powder, granules or
other solid forms, of a fat content by weight exceeding
1,5 %
0406 90 20 Melting cheese for processing 30 50 2 500
0406 90 10 Other soft uncooked cheeses, and other pressed cheeses, 30 100
half- or fully cooked
800
0406 90 90 Other cheeses (of Italian and Gouda style) 30 100
0407 00 30 Game birds’ eggs 30 100 100
0602 20 00 Edible fruit or nut trees, shrubs and bushes, whether or 5 100 Unlimited
not grafted
0602 90 10 Fruit trees, not grafted (wild stock) 5 100 Unlimited
0602 90 20 Young seedlings (trees) 5 100 Unlimited
0602 90 90 Others: indoor plants, vegetable and strawberry cuttings 5 100 Unlimited
and seedlings
0701 10 00 Seed potatoes, fresh or chilled 5 100 45 000
ex 0713 Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled, whether or not 5 100 3 000
skinned of split, not for seedL 265/70 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Preferential
Reduction of
Applied tariff tariff
customs duty
(%) quotas
CN code Description (%)
(tonnes)
(a) (b) (c)
0802 12 00 Shelled almonds 30 20 100
0805 Citrus fruit, fresh or dried 30 20 100
0810 90 00 Other fresh fruit 30 100 500
0813 20 00 Prunes
30 20 50
0813 50 00 Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this chapter
0904 Pepper of the genus Piper; dried or crushed or ground 30 100 50
fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta
0909 30 Cumin seeds, neither crushed nor ground 30 100 50
0910 91 00 Other spices 30 100 50
0910 99 00
1001 10 90 Durum wheat, other than for sowing 5 100 100 000
1001 90 90 Wheat other than durum, other than for sowing 5 100 300 000
1003 00 90 Barley, other than for sowing 15 50 200 000
1004 00 90 Oats, other than for sowing 15 100 1 500
1005 90 00 Maize, other than for sowing 15 100 500
1006 Rice 5 100 2 000
1008 30 90 Canary seed, other than for sowing 30 100 500
1103 13 Groats and meal of maize 30 50 1 000
1105 20 00 Flakes, granules and pellets of potatoes 30 20 100
1107 10 Malt, not roasted 30 100 1 500
1108 12 00 Maize starch 30 20 1 000
1207 99 00 Other oil seeds and oleaginous fruits, whether or not 5 100 100
broken
1209 21 00 Lucerne (alafalfa) fodder seeds 5 100 Unlimited
1209 91 00 Vegetable seeds, for sowing 5 100 Unlimited
1209 99 00 Seeds other than vegetable seeds 5 100 Unlimited
1210 20 00 Hop cones, ground, powdered or in the form of pellets; 5 100 Unlimited
lupulin
1211 90 00 Plants and parts of plants, incl. seeds and fruits, of a kind 5 100 Unlimited
used primarily in perfumery, in pharmacy or for insecti-
cidal, fungicidal or similar purposes, fresh or dried,
whether or not cut, crushed or powdered
1212 30 90 Fruit stones and kernels and other vegetable products of 30 100 Unlimited
a kind used primarily for human consumption, not else-
where specified
1507 10 10 Crude soya-bean oil, whether or not de-gummed 15 50 1 000
1507 90 00 Soya-bean oil, other than crude 30 20 1 000
1511 90 00 Palm oil and its fractions, whether or not refined, but not 30 100 250
chemically modified, other than crude
1512 11 10 Sunflower-seed or safflower oil and fractions thereof, 15 50 25 000
crude10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/71
Preferential
Reduction of
Applied tariff tariff
customs duty
(%) quotas
CN code Description (%)
(tonnes)
(a) (b) (c)
1514 11 10 Rape or colza oil and fractions thereof, crude
15 100 20 000
1514 91 11 Mustard oil and fractions thereof, crude
1514 19 00 Rape or colza oil, other than crude
30 100 2 500
1514 91 19 Mustard oil, other than crude
1516 20 Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions (excl. 30 100 2 000
1516 20 10)
1517 10 00 Margarine, excluding liquid margarine 30 100 2 000
1517 90 00 Other 30
1601 00 00 Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal or 30 20 20
blood; food preparations based on these products
1602 50 Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood of 30 20 20
bovine animals
1701 99 00 Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose, other 30 100 150 000
than raw not containing added flavouring or colouring
matter
1702 90 Other sugars, including invert sugar, and other sugars 30 100 500
and sugar syrups, containing in the dry state more than
50 % by weight of fructose
1703 90 00 Molasses resulting from the extraction or refining of 15 100 1 000
sugar, other than cane molasses
2005 40 00 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than
by vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen, other than products
of heading No 2006
Peas (Pisum sativum) 30 100 200
2005 59 00 Beans, other than shelled 30 20 250
2005 60 00 Asparagus 30 100 500
2005 90 00 Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables 30 20 200
2007 99 00 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut puree and fruit
or nut pastes, being cooked preparations, whether or not
containing added sugar or other sweetening matter
Non-homogenised preparations, of other than citrus fruit 30 20 100
2008 19 00 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants, otherwise
prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added
sugar or other sweetening matter or spirit, not elsewhere
specified or included.
Nuts other than ground-nuts, including mixtures 30 20 100
2008 20 00 Pineapples, otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or 30 100 100
not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter
or spirit, not elsewhere specified or included.
2009 41 00 Pineapple juice 15 100 200
2009 80 10 Juices of any other single fruit or vegetable 15 100 100
2204 10 00 Sparkling wine 30 100 100 hlL 265/72 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Preferential
Reduction of
Applied tariff tariff
customs duty
(%) quotas
CN code Description (%)
(tonnes)
(a) (b) (c)
2302 20 00 Bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in the
form of pellets, derived from the sifting, milling or other
working of cereals or of leguminous plants:
of rice 30 100 1 000
2304 00 00 Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not ground 30 100 10 000
or in the form of pellets, resulting from the extraction of
soya-bean oil
2306 30 00 Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not ground
or in the form of pellets, resulting from the extraction of
vegetable fats or oils, other than those of heading
Nos 2304 or 2305:
of sunflower seeds 30 100 1 000
2309 90 00 Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding, other than 15 50 1 000
for dogs or cats
2401 10 00 Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped 15 100 8 500
2401 20 00 Tobacco partly or wholly stemmed/stripped 15 100 1 000
5201 00 Cotton, neither carded nor combed 5 100 Unlimited10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/73
PROTOCOL No 3
On the arrangements applying to imports into the community of fishery products originating in algeria
Sole article
The products listed below, originating in Algeria, shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties.
CN code 2002 Description
Chapter 3 Fish and crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates
– – Products of fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates; dead ani-
mals of Chapter 3:
0511 91 10 – – – Fish waste
0511 91 90 – – – Other
Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes prepared from fish eggs:
– Fish, whole or in pieces, but not minced:
1604 11 00 – – Salmon
1604 12 – – Herrings
– – Sardines, sardinella and brisling or sprats:
1604 13 90 – – – Other
1604 14 – – Tunas, skipjack and bonito (Sarda spp.)
1604 15 – – Mackerel
1604 16 00 – – Anchovies
1604 19 – – Other
– Other prepared or preserved fish:
1604 20 05 – – Preparations of surimi
– – Other:
1604 20 10 – – – Of salmon
1604 20 30 – – – Of salmonidae, other than salmon
1604 20 40 – – – Of anchovies
ex 1604 20 50 – – – Of sardines, bonito, mackerel of the species Scomber scombrus and Scomber japoni-
cus, fish of the species Orcynopsis unicolor
1604 20 70 – – – Of tunas, skipjack or other fish of the genus Euthynnus
1604 20 90 – – – Of other fish
1604 30 – Caviar and caviar substitutes:
1605 Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates, prepared or preserved:
Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or otherwise pre-
pared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; cous-
cous, whether or not prepared:
– Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or otherwise prepared:
1902 20 10 – – Containing more than 20 % by weight of fish, crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic
invertebrates
Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal, of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or
other aquatic invertebrates, unfit for human consumption; greaves:
2301 20 00 – Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic inverte-
bratesL 265/74 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 4
on the arrangements applying to imports into Algeria of fishery products originating
in the Community
Sole article
The products listed below, originating in the Community, shall be imported into Algeria in accordance with
the conditions set out below.
Rate of tariff
duty applied Rate of reduction
Code (Algerian) Description
(according to applied
Art. 18)
(1) (2) (3) (4)
0301 Live fish
0301 99 10 – alevins 5 % 100 %
0301 99 90 – others 30 % 100 %
0302 Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets and other fish meat of
heading No 0304:
– Salmonidae, excluding livers and roes:
0302 11 00 – – Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki, 30 % 100 %
Oncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus
apache and Onchorhynchus chrysogaster):
0302 12 00 – – Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, 30 % 100 %
Oncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus
kisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),
Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon (Hucho
hucho)
0302 19 00 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scoph-
thalmidae and Citharidae), excluding livers and roes:
0302 21 00 – – Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides, Hippoglossus hippoglos- 30 % 100 %
sus, Hippoglossus stenolepis):
0302 22 00 – – Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa) 30 % 100 %
0302 23 00 – – Sole (Solea spp.) 30 % 25 %
0302 29 00 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito
(Euthynnus (Katsuwonus) pelamis), excluding livers and roes:
0302 31 00 – – Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga): 30 % 25 %
0302 32 00 – – Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares): 30 % 25 %
0302 33 00 – – Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito 30 % 25 %
0302 34 00 – – Bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) 30 % 25 %
0302 35 00 – – – – Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus) 30 % 25 %
0302 36 00 – – – – Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii) 30 % 100 %
0302 39 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0302 40 00 – Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii), excluding livers and 30 % 100 %
roes10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/75
(1) (2) (3) (4)
0302 50 00 – Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus), exclud- 30 % 100 %
ing livers and roes
– Other fish, excluding livers and roes
0302 61 00 – – Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp), sardinella (Sar- 30 % 25 %
dinella spp.) and brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus)
0302 62 00 – – Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) 30 % 100 %
0302 63 00 – – Coalfish (Pollachius virens) 30 % 100 %
0302 64 00 – – Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber 30 % 25 %
japonicus)
0302 65 00 – – Dogfish and other sharks: 30 % 25 %
0302 69 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0302 70 00 – Livers and roes 30 % 25 %
0303 Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets and other fish meat of heading
No 0304
– Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,
Onchorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus
kisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),
excluding livers and roes:
0303 11 00 – – Red salmon 30 % 100 %
0303 19 00 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Other salmonidae, excluding livers and roes:
0303 21 00 – – – Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss, Oncorhynchus 30 % 100 %
clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus gilae, Onco-
rhynchus apache and Oncorhynchus chrysogaster)
0303 22 00 – – Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon (Hucho 30 % 100 %
hucho)
0303 29 00 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scoph-
thalmidae and Citharidae), excluding livers and roes:
0303 31 00 – – Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides, Hippoglossus hippoglos- 30 % 100 %
sus, Hippoglossus stenolepis)
0303 32 00 – – Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa) 30 % 100 %
0303 33 00 – – Sole (Solea spp.) 30 % 25 %
0303 39 00 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito
(Euthynnus (Katsuwonus) pelamis), excluding livers and roes:
0303 41 00 – – Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga): 30 % 25 %
0303 42 00 – – Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares): 30 % 25 %
0303 43 00 – – Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito 30 % 25 %
0303 44 00 – – Bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) 30 % 25 %
0303 45 00 – – – – Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus) 30 % 25 %
0303 46 00 – – – – Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii) 30 % 100 %
0303 49 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0303 50 00 – Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii), excluding livers and 30 % 100 %
roesL 265/76 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(1) (2) (3) (4)
0303 60 00 – Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus), exclud- 30 % 100 %
ing livers and roes
– Other fish, excluding livers and roes
0303 71 00 – – Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp), sardinella (Sar- 30 % 25 %
dinella spp.) and brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus)
0303 72 00 – – Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) 30 % 100 %
0303 73 00 – – Coalfish (Pollachius virens) 30 % 100 %
0303 74 00 – – Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber 30 % 25 %
japonicus)
0303 75 00 – – Dogfish and other sharks: 30 % 25 %
0303 77 00 – – Sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax, Dicentrarchus punctatus) 30 % 25 %
0303 78 00 – – Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis spp.) 30 % 25 %
0303 79 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
– Livers and roes:
0303 80 10 – – Of tuna 30 % 25 %
0303 80 90 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0304 Fish fillets and other fish meat (whether or not minced), fresh,
chilled or frozen
– Fresh or chilled:
0304 10 10 – – Of tuna 30 % 25 %
0304 10 90 – – Other 30 % 25 %
– Frozen fillets:
0304 20 10 – – Of tuna 30 % 25 %
0304 20 90 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0304 90 00 – Others 30 % 25 %
0305 Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked fish, whether or not cooked
before or during the smoking process; flours, meals and pellets of
fish, fit for human consumption:
0305 10 00 – Flours, meals and pellets of fish, fit for human consumption 30 % 100 %
0305 20 00 – Livers and roes, dried, smoked, salted or in brine 30 % 100 %
0305 30 00 – Fish fillets, dried, salted or in brine, but not smoked 30 % 25 %
– Smoked fish, including fillets:
0305 41 00 – – Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, 30 % 100 %
Oncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus
kisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),
Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon (Hucho
hucho)
0305 42 00 – – Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii) 30 % 100 %
0305 49 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
– Dried fish, whether or not salted but not smoked:
0305 51 00 – – Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus) 30 % 100 %
0305 59 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
– Fish, salted but not dried or smoked and fish in brine:
0305 61 00 – – Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii) 30 % 100 %10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/77
(1) (2) (3) (4)
0305 62 00 – – Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus) 30 % 100 %
0305 69 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0306 Crustaceans, whether in shell or not, live, fresh, chilled, frozen,
dried, salted or in brine; crustaceans in shell cooked beforehand
by steaming or by boiling in water, whether fresh, chilled, frozen,
dried, salted or in brine; flours, meals and pellets of crustaceans,
fit for human consumption
– Frozen:
0306 11 00 – – Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus spp., Panulirus 30 % 25 %
spp., Jasus spp.)
0306 12 00 – – Lobsters (Homarus spp.) 30 % 25 %
0306 13 00 – – Shrimps and prawns 30 % 25 %
0306 14 00 – – Crabs 30 % 25 %
0306 19 00 – – Other, including flours, meals and pellets of crustaceans, fit 30 % 100 %
for human consumption
0307 Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried,
salted or in brine; aquatic invertebrates other than crustaceans
and molluscs, live, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine;
flours, meals and pellets of aquatic invertebrates other than crus-
taceans, fit for human consumption
– Oysters:
0307 10 10 – – Spats 5 % 100 %
0307 10 90 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– Mussels (Mytilus spp., Perna spp.)
0307 31 10 – – Mussel spats 5 % 100 %
0307 31 90 – – Other 30 % 100 %
– – – Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia macrosoma, Sepiola spp.);
Squid (Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp., Nototodarus spp.,
Sepioteuthis spp.):
0307 41 00 – – Live, fresh or chilled 30 % 25 %
0307 49 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
– Octopus (Octopus spp.):
0307 51 00 – – Live, fresh or chilled 30 % 25 %
0307 59 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0307 60 00 – Snails, other than sea snails 30 % 25 %
– Other, including flours, meals and pellets of aquatic inverte-
brates other than crustaceans, fit for human consumption:
0307 91 00 – – Live, fresh or chilled 30 % 25 %
0307 99 00 – – Other 30 % 25 %
0511 Animal products not elsewhere specified or included; dead ani-
mals of Chapter 1 or 3, unfit for human consumption:
0511 91 00 – – Products of fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic 30 % 25 %
invertebrates; dead animals of Chapter 3:
2301 Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal, of fish or of crus-
taceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates, unfit for human
consumption; greaves:
2301 10 00 – Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal; greaves 30 % 25 %L 265/78 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 5
on commercial trade in processed agricultural products between Algeria and the Community
Article 1
Imports into the Community of processed agricultural products originating in Algeria shall be subject to the
import customs duties and the charges having equivalent effect listed in Annex 1 to this protocol.
Article 2
Imports into Algeria of processed agricultural products originating in the Community shall be subject to the
import customs duties and the charges having equivalent effect listed in Annex 2 to this protocol.
Article 3
The reductions in customs duties listed in Annexes 1 and 2 shall be applicable from the date of entry into force
of the Agreement on the basic duty, as defined in Article 18 of the Agreement.
Article 4
Customs duties applied in accordance with Articles 1 and 2 may be reduced once the taxes on trade in basic
agricultural products between the Community and Algeria have been reduced, or if these reductions are
achieved by mutual concessions concerning processed agricultural products.
The reduction referred to in the first subparagraph, the list of products concerned and, where appropriate, the
tariff quotas within which the reduction will apply shall be established by the Association Council.
Article 5
The Community and Algeria shall keep each other informed of any administrative measures implemented con-
cerning the products covered by this Protocol.
These measures must ensure that all the parties concerned are dealt with equally, and must be as simple and as
flexible as possible.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/79
PROTOCOL 5: ANNEX 1
COMMUNITY SCHEDULE
Preferential rights accorded by the Community to products originating in Algeria
Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the Combined Nomenclature, the wording for the description of the prod-
ucts is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the quotas being determined, within the context of this
Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes as they exist at the time of signature of this Agreement.
List 1
CN code Description Customs duties
0501 00 00 Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or scoured; waste of human 0 %
hair
0502 Pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair; badger hair and other brush making hair;
waste of such bristles or hair:
0502 10 00 – Pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair and waste thereof 0 %
0502 90 00 – Other 0 %
0503 00 00 Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up as a layer with or with- 0 %
out supporting material
0505 Skins and other parts of birds, with their feathers or down, feathers and parts
of feathers (whether or not with trimmed edges) and down, not further worked
than cleaned, disinfected or treated for preservation; powder and waste of
feathers or parts of feathers:
0505 10 Feathers of a kind used for stuffing; down:
0505 10 10 – – Unworked 0 %
0505 10 90 – – Other 0 %
0505 90 00 – Other 0 %
0506 Bones and horn-cores, unworked, defatted, simply prepared (but not cut
to shape), treated with acid or degelatinised; powder and waste of these prod-
ucts:
0506 10 00 – Ossein and bones treated with acid 0 %
0506 90 00 – Other 0 %
0507 Ivory, tortoise-shell, whalebone and whalebone hair, horns, antlers, hooves,
nails, claws and beaks, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape;
powder and waste of these products:
0507 10 00 – Ivory; ivory powder and waste 0 %
0507 90 00 – Other 0 %
0508 00 00 Coral and similar materials unworked or simply prepared but not otherwise 0 %
worked. Shells of molluscs, crustaceans or echinoderms and cuttle-bone,
unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape, powder and waste thereof
0509 00 Natural sponges of animal origin
0509 00 10 – Raw 0 %
0509 00 90 – Raw 0 %
0510 00 00 Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk; cantharides; bile, whether or not dried, 0 %
gland and other animal products used in the preparation of pharmaceutical
products, fresh, chilled, frozen or otherwise provisionally preserved
0903 00 00 Maté 0 %
1212 20 00 – Seaweed and other algae: 0 %L 265/80 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
1302 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances, pectinates and pectates;
agar-agar and other mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified,
derived from vegetable products:
– Vegetable saps and extracts:
1302 12 00 – – Of liquorice 0 %
1302 13 00 – – Of hops 0 %
1302 14 00 – – Of pyrethrum or of the roots of plants containing rotenone 0 %
1302 19 30 – – – Intermixtures of vegetable extracts, for the manufacture of beverages or 0 %
of food preparations
– – – Other:
1302 19 91 – – – – Medicinal 0 %
– Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified, derived from vegetable
products:
1302 31 00 – – Agar-agar 0 %
1302 32 – – Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified, derived from locust 0 %
beans, locust bean seeds or guar seeds:
1302 32 10 – – – Of locust beans or locust bean seeds 0 %
1401 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily for plaiting (for example, bam-
boos, rattans, reeds, rushes, osier, raffia, cleaned, bleached or dyed cereal
straw, and lime bark):
1401 10 00 – Bamboos 0 %
1401 20 00 – Rattans 0 %
1401 90 00 – Other 0 %
1402 00 00 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily as stuffing or as padding (for 0 %
example, kapok, vegetable hair and eel-grass), whether or not put up as a layer
with or without supporting material:
1403 00 00 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily in brooms or in brushes (for 0 %
example, broomcorn, piassava, couch-grass and istle), whether or not in hanks
or bundles:
1404 Vegetable products not elsewhere specified or included:
1404 10 00 – Raw vegetable materials of a kind used primarily in dyeing or tanning 0 %
1404 20 00 – Cotton linters 0 %
1404 90 00 – Other 0 %
1505 Wool grease and fatty substances derived therefrom (including lanolin):
1505 00 10 – Wool grease, crude 0 %
1505 00 90 – Other 0 %
1506 00 00 Other animal fats and oils and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not 0 %
chemically modified
1515 Other fixed vegetable fats and oils (including jojoba oil) and their fractions,
whether or not refined, but not chemically modified:
1515 90 15 – – Oiticica oils; myrtle wax and Japan wax; their fractions 0 %
1516 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, partly or wholly hydro-
genated, inter-esterified, re-esterified or elaidinised, whether or not refined, but
not further prepared:10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/81
CN code Description Customs duties
1516 20 – Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions:
1516 20 10 – – Hydrogenated castor oil, so called ‘opal-wax’ 0 %
1517 90 93 – – – Edible mixtures or preparations of a kind used as mould release prepa- 0 %
ration
1518 00 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, boiled, oxidised, dehy-
drated, sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert gas or
otherwise chemically modified, excluding those of heading No 1516; inedible
mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of
different fats or oils of this chapter, not elsewhere specified or included:
1518 00 10 – Linoxyn 0 %
– Other:
1518 00 91 – – Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, boiled, oxidised, 0 %
dehydrated, sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vacuum or in
inert gas or otherwise chemically modified, excluding those of heading
No 1516
– – Other:
1518 00 95 – – – Inedible mixtures or preparations of animal or of animal and vegetable 0 %
fats and oils and their fractions
1518 00 99 – – – Other 0 %
1520 00 00 Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and glycerol lyes 0 %
1521 Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides), beeswax, other insect waxes and
spermaceti, whether or not refined or coloured:
1521 10 00 – Vegetable waxes 0 %
1521 90 – Other:
1521 90 10 – – Spermaceti, whether or not refined or coloured 0 %
– – Beeswax and other insect waxes, whether or not refined or coloured:
1521 90 91 – Raw 0 %
1521 90 99 – – – Other 0 %
1522 00 Degras; residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal
or vegetable waxes:
1522 00 10 – Degras 0 %
1702 90 Other, including invert sugar: and other sugars and sugar sirops, containing
in the dry state 50 % by weight of fructose
1702 90 10 – – Chemically pure maltose 0 %
1704 Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not containing cocoa:
1704 90 – Other:
1704 90 10 – – Liquorice extract containing more than 10 % by weight of sucrose but 0 %
not containing other added substances
1803 Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted:
1803 10 00 – Not defatted 0 %
1803 20 00 – Wholly or partly defatted 0 %
1804 00 00 Cocoa butter, fat and oil 0 %L 265/82 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
1805 00 00 Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter 0 %
1806 Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa:
1806 10 – Cocoa powder, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter:
1806 10 15 – – Containing no sucrose or containing less than 5 % by weight of sucrose 0 %
(including invert sugar expressed as sucrose) or isoglucose expressed as
sucrose
1901 90 91 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or con- 0 %
taining less than 1,5 % milk fat, 5 % glucose or starch, excluding food
preparations in powder form of goods of heading Nos. 0401 to 0404
2001 90 60 – – Palm hearts 0 %
2008 11 10 – – – Peanut butter 0 %
– Other, including mixtures other than those of subheading 2008 19:
2008 91 00 – – Palm hearts 0 %
2101 Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee, tea or maté preparations with a
basis of these products or with a basis of coffee, tea or maté; roasted chicory
and other roasted coffee substitutes and extracts, essences and concentrates,
thereof:
– Extracts, essences and concentrates of coffee, and preparations with a basis
of these extracts, essences or concentrates or with a basis of coffee:
2101 11 – – Extracts, essences and concentrates:
2101 11 11 – – – With a coffee-based dry matter content of 95 % or more by weight 0 %
2101 11 19 – – – Other 0 %
2101 12 92 – – – Preparations with a basis of these extracts, essences or concentrates of 0 %
coffee
2101 20 – Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté, and preparations with
a basis of these extracts, essences or concentrates, or with a basis of tea or
maté:
2101 20 20 – – Extracts, essences or concentrates 0 %
– – Preparations:
2101 20 92 – – – With a basis of extracts, essences or concentrates of tea or maté 0 %
2101 30 – Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes, and extracts, essences
and concentrates thereof:
– – Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes
2101 30 11 – – – Roasted chicory 0 %
2101 30 91 – – – Of roasted chicory 0 %
2102 Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-cell micro-organisms, dead (but not
including vaccines of No 3002); prepared baking powders:
2102 10 – Active yeasts
2102 10 10 – – Culture yeast 0 %
– – Bakers’ yeast:
2102 10 31 – – – Dried 0 %
2102 10 39 – – – Other 0 %
2102 10 90 – – Other 0 %10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/83
CN code Description Customs duties
2102 20 – Inactive yeasts; other single-cell micro-organisms, dead:
– – Inactive yeasts:
2102 20 11 – – – In tablet, cube or similar form, or in immediate packings of a net con- 0 %
tent not exceeding 1 kg
2102 20 19 – – – Other 0 %
2102 20 90 – – Other 0 %
2102 30 00 – Prepared baking powders 0 %
2103 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed condiments and mixed seasonings;
mustard flour and meal and prepared mustard:
2103 10 00 – Soya sauce 0 %
2103 20 00 – Tomato ketchup and other tomato sauces 0 %
2103 30 – Mustard flour and meal and prepared mustard:
2103 30 10 – – Mustard flour 0 %
2103 30 90 – – Prepared mustard 0 %
2103 90 – Other:
2103 90 10 – – Mango chutney, liquid 0 %
2103 90 30 – – Aromatic bitters of an alcoholic strength by volume of 44,2 to 49,2 % 0 %
vol containing from 1,5 to 6 % by weight of gentian, spices and various
ingredients and from 4 to 10 % of sugar, in containers holding 0,5 % litre
or less
2103 90 90 – – Other 0 %
2104 Soups and broths and preparations therefor;harmonised composite food
preparations:
2104 10 – Soups and broths and preparations therefor:
2104 10 10 – – Dried 0 %
2104 10 90 – – Other 0 %
2104 20 00 – Harmonised composite food preparations 0 %
2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included:
2106 10 – Protein concentrates and textured protein substances:
2106 10 20 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or con- 0 %
taining by weight less than 1,5 % milk fat, 5 % sucrose or isoglucose,
5 % glucose or starch
2106 90 – Other:
– – Other:
2106 90 92 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or con- 0 %
taining by weight less than 1,5 % milk fat, 5 % sucrose or isoglucose,
5 % glucose or starch
2201 Waters, including natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, not
containing added sugar or other sweetening matter nor flavoured; ice and
snow:
2201 10 – Mineral waters and aerated waters:
– – Natural mineral waters:
2201 10 11 – – – Not carbonated 0 %L 265/84 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
2201 10 19 – – – Other 0 %
– – Other:
2201 10 90 – – – Other 0 %
2201 90 00 – Other 0 %
2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar
or other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages,
not including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No 2009:
2202 10 00 – Waters including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added 0 %
sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured
2202 90 – Other:
2202 90 10 – – Not containing products of Nos. 0401 to 0404 or fat obtained from 0 %
products of Nos 0401 to 0404
– – Other, containing by weight of fat obtained from the products of head-
ing Nos 0401 to 0404:
2203 00 Beer made from malt:
– In containers holding 10 litres or less:
2203 00 01 – – In bottles 0 %
2203 00 09 – – Other 0 %
2203 00 10 – In containers holding more than 10 litres 0 %
2208 Undermatured ethyl alcohol strength by volume of less than 80 % vol; spirits,
liqueurs and other spirituous beverages:
2208 20 12 – – – Cognac 0 %
2208 20 14 – – – Armagnac 0 %
2208 20 26 – – – Grappa 0 %
2208 20 27 – – – Brandy de Jerez 0 %
2208 20 29 – – – Other 0 %
– – In containers holding more than 2 litres:
2208 20 40 – – – Raw distillate 0 %
– – – Other:
2208 20 62 – – – Cognac 0 %
2208 20 64 – – – Armagnac 0 %
2208 20 86 – – – Grappa 0 %
2208 20 87 – – – – Brandy de Jerez 0 %
2208 20 89 – – – – Other 0 %
2208 30 – Whiskies
– – Bourbon whiskey, in containers holding:
2208 30 11 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 30 19 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – Scotch whisky:
– – – Malt whisky, in containers holding:
2208 30 32 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/85
CN code Description Customs duties
2208 30 38 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – – Blended whisky, in containers holding:
2208 30 52 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 30 58 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – – Other, in containers holding:
2208 30 72 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 30 78 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – – Other, in containers holding:
2208 30 82 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 30 88 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
2208 50 – Gin and Geneva:
– – Gin, in containers holding:
2208 50 11 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 50 19 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – Geneva, in containers holding:
2208 50 91 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 50 99 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
2208 60 – Vodka:
– – Of an alcoholic strength by volume of 45,4 % vol or less in containers
holding:
2208 60 11 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 60 19 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – Of an alcoholic strength by volume of more than 45,4 % vol in contain-
ers holding:
2208 60 91 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 60 99 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
2208 70 – Liqueurs:
2208 70 10 – – In containers holding 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 70 90 – – In containers holding more than 2 litres 0 %
2208 90 – Other:
– – Arrack, in containers holding:
2208 90 11 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 90 19 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – Plum, pear or cherry spirit (excluding liqueurs), in containers holding:
2208 90 33 – – – 2 litres or less 0 %
2208 90 38 – – – More than 2 litres 0 %
– – Other spirits, and other spirituous beverages, in containers holding:
– – – 2 litres or less:
2208 90 41 – – – – Ouzo 0 %L 265/86 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
– – – Other
– – – Spirits (excluding liqueurs):
– – – – – Distilled from fruit
2208 90 45 – – – – – – – Calvados 0 %
2208 90 48 – – – Other 0 %
– – – Other:
2208 90 52 – – – – – – – Korn 0 %
2208 90 57 – – – Other 0 %
2208 90 69 – – – – – Other spirituous beverages 0 %
– – – More than 2 litres:
– – – – Spirits (excluding liqueurs):
2208 90 71 – – – – – Distilled from fruit 0 %
2208 90 74 – – – Other 0 %
2208 90 78 – – – – – Other spirituous beverages 0 %
2402 10 00 – Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco 0 %
2402 20 – Cigarettes containing tobacco:
2402 20 10 – – Containing cloves 0 %
2402 20 90 – – Other 0 %
2402 90 00 – Other 0 %
2403 Other manufactured tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes; ‘harmo-
nised’ or ‘reconstituted’ tobacco; tobacco extracts and essences:
2403 10 – Smoking tobacco, whether or not containing tobacco substitutes in any
proportion:
2403 10 10 – – In immediate packings of a net content not exceeding two litres 0 %
2403 10 90 – – Other 0 %
– Other:
2403 91 00 – – ‘Harmonised’ or ‘reconstituted’ tobacco 0 %
2403 99 – – Other:
2403 99 10 – – – Chewing tobacco and snuff 0 %
2403 99 90 – – – Other 0 %
2905 45 00 – – Glycerol 0 %
3301 Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including concretes and absolutes; extracted
oleoresins; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in fixed oils, in waxes or the
like, obtained by enfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products of the deter-
penation of essential oils; aqueous distillates and aqueous solutions of essen-
tial oils:
3301 90 – Other:
3301 90 10 – – Terpenic by-products of the deterpenation of essential oils 0 %10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/87
CN code Description Customs duties
– – Extracted oleoresins
3301 90 21 – – – Of liquorice and hops 0 %
3301 90 30 – – – Other 0 %
3301 90 90 – – Other 0 %
3302 Mixtures of odoriferous substances and mixtures (including alcoholic solu-
tions) with a basis of one or more of these substances, of a kind used as raw
materials in industry; other preparations based on odoriferous substances, of
a kind used for the manufacture of beverages:
3302 10 Of a kind used in the food or drink industries
3302 10 21 – – – – – Containing no milkfats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch 0 %
or containing, by weight, less than 1,5 % milkfat, 5 % sucrose
or isoglucose, 5 % glucose or starch
3501 Casein, caseinates and other casein derivatives; casein glues:
3501 10 – Casein:
3501 10 10 – – For the manufacture of regenerated textile fibres 0 %
3501 10 50 – – For industrial uses other than the manufacture of foodstuffs or fodder 0 %
3501 10 90 – – Other 0 %
3501 90 – Other:
3501 90 90 – – Other 0 %
3823 Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining; industrial fatty
alcohols:
– Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining:
3823 11 00 – – Stearic acid 0 %
3823 12 00 – – Oleic acid 0 %
3823 13 00 – – Tall oil fatty acids 0 %
3823 19 – – Other:
3823 19 10 – – – Distilled fatty acids 0 %
3823 19 30 – – – Fatty acid distillate 0 %
3823 19 90 – – – Other 0 %
3823 70 00 – Industrial fatty alcohols 0 %L 265/88 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
List 2
CN code Description Customs duties
0403 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yoghurt, kephir and other fermented or
acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added
sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit
or cocoa:
0403 10 – Yoghurt:
– – Flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa:
– – – In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a milkfat content, by 0 % within the
weight: limit of an
annual tariff
0403 10 51 – – – 1,5 % or less
quota of
0403 10 53 – – – – Exceeding 1,5 % but not exceeding 27 % 1 500 tonnes
0403 10 59 – – – Exceeding 27 %
– – – Other, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 10 91 – – – Not exceeding 3 %
0403 10 93 – – – – Exceeding 3 % but not exceeding 6 %
0403 10 99 – – – Exceeding 6 %
1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or 0 % within the
otherwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, limit of an
ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared: annual tariff
quota of
1902 30 – Other pasta:
2 000 tonnes
1902 30 10 – – – Dried
1902 30 90 – – Other
1902 40 – Couscous: 0 % within the
limit of an
1902 40 10 – – Unprepared annual tariff
quota of
1902 40 90 – – Other 2 000 tonnes
1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not contain-
ing cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharma-
ceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products: 0 %
1905 90 90 – – – – Other
List 3
CN code Description Customs duties
0403 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yoghurt, kephir and other fermented or
acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added
sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured of containing added fruit
or cocoa:
0403 90 – Other:
– – Flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa:
– – – In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a milkfat content, by
weight:
0403 90 71 – – – 1,5 % or less 0 % + EA
0403 90 73 – – – – Exceeding 1,5 % but not exceeding 27 % 0 % + EA10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/89
CN code Description Customs duties
0403 90 79 – – – Exceeding 27 % 0 % + EA
– – – Other, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 90 91 – – – Not exceeding 3 % 0 % + EA
0403 90 93 – – – – Exceeding 3 % but not exceeding 6 % 0 % + EA
0403 90 99 – – – Exceeding 6 % 0 % + EA
0405 Butter and other fats and oils derived from milk; dairy spreads:
0405 20 – Dairy spreads:
0405 20 10 – – Of a fat content, by weight, of 39 % or more but less than 60 % 0 % + EA
0405 20 30 – – Of a fat content, by weight, of 60 % or more but not exceeding 75 % 0 % + EA
0710 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water), frozen:
0710 40 00 – Sweet corn 0 % + EA
0711 Vegetables provisionally preserved (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in
brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions), but unsuitable in
that state for immediate consumption:
0711 90 – Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables:
– – Vegetables:
0711 90 30 – – – Sweet corn 0 % + EA
1302 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances, pectinates and pectates; agar-
agar and other mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified, derived
from vegetable products:
1302 20 10 – – Dry 50 % reduction
1302 20 90 – – Other 50 % reduction
1517 Margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils
or of fractions of different fats or oils of this Chapter, other than edible fats or
oils or their fractions of heading No 1516
1517 10 – Margarine, excluding liquid margarine:
1517 10 10 – – Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk 0 % + EA
fats
1517 90 – Other:
1517 90 10 – – Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk 0 % + EA
fats
1702 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose, maltose, glucose and fruc-
tose, in solid form; sugar syrups not containing added flavouring or colouring
matter; artificial honey, whether or not mixed with natural honey; aramel:
1702 50 00 – chemically pure fructose 0 % + EA
1704 10 – Chewing gum, whether or not sugar-coated:
– – Containing less than 60 % by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar
expressed as sucrose):
1704 10 11 – – – Gum in strips 0 % + EAL 265/90 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
1704 10 19 – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – Containing 60 % or more by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar
expressed as sucrose):
1704 10 91 – – – Gum in strips 0 % + EA
1704 10 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1704 90 30 – – White chocolate 0 % + EA
– – Other:
1704 90 51 – – – Pastes, including marzipan, in immediate packings of a net content of 0 % + EA
1 kg or more
1704 90 55 – – – Throat pastilles and cough drops 0 % + EA
1704 90 61 – – – Sugar coated (panned) goods 0 % + EA
– – – Other:
1704 90 65 – – – – Gum confectionery and jelly confectionery, including fruit pastes in 0 % + EA
the form of sugar confectionery
1704 90 71 – – – – Boiled sweets, whether or not filled 0 % + EA
1704 90 75 – – – – Toffees, caramels and similar sweets 0 % + EA
– – – Other
1704 90 81 – – – – – Compressed tablets 0 % + EA
1704 90 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1806 Chocolate and other food preparation containing cocoa
1806 10 20 – – Containing 5 % or more but less than 65 % by weight of sucrose (includ- 0 % + EA
ing invert sugar expressed as sucrose) or isoglucose expressed as sucrose
1806 10 30 – – Containing 65 % or more but less than 80 % by weight of sucrose 0 % + EA
(including invert sugar expressed as sucrose) or isoglucose expressed as
sucrose
1806 10 90 – – Containing 80 % or more by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar 0 % + EA
expressed as sucrose) or isoglucose expressed as sucrose
1806 20 – Other preparations in blocks, slabs or bars weighing more than 2 kg or in
liquid, paste, powder, granular or other bulk form in containers or imme-
diate packings, of a content exceeding 2 kg:
1806 20 10 – – Containing 31 % or more by weight of cocoa butter or containing a com- 0 % + EA
bined weight of 31 % or more of cocoa butter and milk fat
1806 20 30 – – Containing a combined weight of 25 % or more, but less than 31 % of 0 % + EA
cocoa butter and milk fat
– – Other:
1806 20 50 – – – Containing 18 % or more by weight of cocoa butter 0 % + EA
1806 20 70 – – – Chocolate milk crumb 0 % + EA
1806 20 80 – – – Chocolate flavour coating 0 % + EA
1806 20 95 – – – Other 0 % + EA
– Other, in blocks, slabs or bars:
1806 31 00 – – Filled 0 % + EA10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/91
CN code Description Customs duties
1806 32 – – Not filled
1806 32 10 – – – With added cereal, fruit or nuts 0 % + EA
1806 32 90 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1806 90 – Other:
– – Chocolate and chocolate products:
– – – Chocolates, whether or not filled:
1806 90 11 – – – – Containing alcohol 0 % + EA
1806 90 19 – – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – – Other:
1806 90 31 – – – – Filled 0 % + EA
1806 90 39 – – – – Not filled 0 % + EA
1806 90 50 – – Sugar confectionery and substitutes therefor made from sugar substitu- 0 % + EA
tion products, containing cocoa
1806 90 60 – – Spreads containing cocoa 0 % + EA
1806 90 70 – – Preparations containing cocoa for making beverages 0 % + EA
1806 90 90 – – Other 0 % + EA
1901 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, meal, starch or malt extract, not con-
taining cocoa or containing less than 40 % by weight of cocoa calculated on
a totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included; food preparations
of goods of heading Nos 0401 to 0404, not containing cocoa or containing
less than 5 % by weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not else-
where specified or included:
1901 10 00 – Preparations for infant use, put up for retail sale 0 % + EA
1901 20 00 – Mixes and doughs for the preparation of bakers’ wares of heading No 1905 0 % + EA
1901 90 – Other:
– – Malt extract:
1901 90 11 – – – With a dry extract content of 90 % or more by weight 0 % + EA
1901 90 19 – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – Other:
1901 90 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or
otherwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi,
ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared:
– Uncooked pasta, not stuffed or otherwise prepared:
1902 11 00 – – Containing eggs 0 % + EA
1902 19 – – Other:
1902 19 10 – – – Containing no common wheat flour or meal 0 % + EAL 265/92 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
1902 19 90 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1902 20 – Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or otherwise prepared
– – Other:
1902 20 91 – – – Cooked 0 % + EA
1902 20 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1903 00 00 Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from starch, in the form of flakes, 0 % + EA
grains, pearls, siftings or similar forms
1904 Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal prod-
ucts (for example, corn flakes); cereals (other than maize (corn)) in grain form
or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal), pre-
cooked, or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included:
1904 10 – Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal
products:
1904 10 10 – – Obtained from maize 0 % + EA
1904 10 30 – – Obtained from rice 0 % + EA
1904 10 90 – – Other: 0 % + EA
1904 20 – Prepared foods obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of
unroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals:
– – Other:
1904 20 10 – – Preparation of the Müsli type based on unroasted cereal flakes 0 % + EA
– – Other:
1904 20 91 – – Obtained from maize 0 % + EA
1904 20 95 – – Obtained from rice 0 % + EA
1904 20 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1904 90 – Other:
1904 90 10 – – Rice 0 % + EA
1904 90 80 – – Other 0 % + EA
1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not contain-
ing cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharma-
ceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products:
1905 10 00 – Crispbread 0 % + EA
1905 20 – Gingerbread and the like:
1905 20 10 – – Containing by weight of sucrose less than 30 % (including invert sugar 0 % + EA
expressed as sucrose)
1905 20 30 – – Containing by weight of sucrose 30 % or more but less than 50 % 0 % + EA
(including invert sugar expressed as sucrose)
1905 20 90 – – Containing by weight of sucrose 50 % or more (including invert sugar 0 % + EA
expressed as sucrose)
– Sweet biscuits; waffles and wafers
1905 31 – Sweet biscuits;
– – Completely or partially coated or covered with chocolate or other prepa-
rations containing cocoa:
1905 31 11 – – In immediate packings of a net content not exceeding 85g 0 % + EA10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/93
CN code Description Customs duties
1905 31 19 – – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – – Other:
1905 31 30 – – – – Containing 8 % or more by weight of milk fats 0 % + EA
– – – Other
1905 31 91 – – – – – Sandwich biscuits 0 % + EA
1905 31 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
1905 32 – – – Waffles and wafers:
1905 32 11 – – In immediate packings of a net content not exceeding 85g 0 % + EA
1905 32 19 – – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – – Other:
1905 32 91 – – – – Salted, whether or not filled 0 % + EA
1905 32 99 – – – – Other 0 % + EA
1905 40 – Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted products:
1905 40 10 – – Rusks 0 % + EA
1905 40 90 – – Other 0 % + EA
1905 90 – Other:
1905 90 10 – – Matzos 0 % + EA
1905 90 20 – – Communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical 0 % + EA
use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products
– – Other:
1905 90 30 – – – Bread, not containing added honey, eggs, cheese or fruit, and contain- 0 % + EA
ing by weight in the dry matter state not more than 5 % of sugars and
not more than 5 % of fat
1905 90 40 – – – Waffles and wafers with a water content exceeding 10 % by weight 0 % + EA
1905 90 45 – – – Biscuits 0 % + EA
1905 90 55 – – – Extruded or expanded products, savoury or salted 0 % + EA
– – – Other:
1905 90 60 – – – – With added sweetening matter 0 % + EA
2001 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants, prepared or preserved
by vinegar or acetic acid:
2001 90 – Other:
2001 90 30 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata) 0 % + EA
2001 90 40 – – Yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of plants containing 5 % 0 % + EA
or more by weight of starch
2004 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic
acid, frozen, other than products of heading No 2006:
2004 10 – Potatoes:
– – Other
2004 10 91 – – In the form of flour, meal or flakes, 0 % + EAL 265/94 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
2004 90 – Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables:
2004 90 10 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata) 0 % + EA
2005 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic
acid, frozen, other than products of heading No 2006:
2005 20 – Potatoes:
2005 20 10 – – In the form of flour, meal or flakes, 0 % + EA
2005 80 00 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata) 0 % + EA
2008 Fruits, nuts and other edible parts of plants, otherwise prepared or preserved,
whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or spirit,
not elsewhere specified or included:
2008 99 – – Other:
2008 99 85 – – – – – Maize (corn), other than sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 0 % + EA
2008 99 91 – – – – – Yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of plants, containing 0 % + EA
5 % or more by weight of starch
2101 12 – – Preparations with a basis of these extracts, essences or concentrates or
with a basis of coffee:
2101 12 98 – – – Other 0 % + EA
2101 20 – Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté, and preparations with
a basis of these extracts, essences or concentrates, or with a basis of tea or
maté:
2101 20 98 – – – Other 0 % + EA
2101 30 – Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes, and extracts, essences
and concentrates thereof:
– – Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes
– – Extracts, essences and concentrates of roasted chicory and other roasted
coffee substitutes:
2101 30 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA
2105 00 Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not containing cocoa:
2105 00 10 – Containing no milk fats or containing less than 3 % by weight of such fats 0 % + EA
– Containing by weight of milk fats:
2105 00 91 – – 3 % or more but less than 7 % 0 % + EA
2105 00 99 – – 7 % or more 0 % + EA
2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included:
2106 10 80 – – Other 0 % + EA
2106 90 20 – – Compound alcoholic preparations, other than those based on odorifer- EA
ous substances, of a kind used for the manufacture of beverages
– – Other:
2106 90 98 – – – Other 0 % + EA
2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar
or other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages,
not including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No 2009:
2202 90 91 – – – Less than 0,2 % by weight 0 % + EA
2202 90 95 – – – 0,2 % or more but less than 2 % 0 % + EA
2202 90 99 – – 2 % or more 0 % + EA10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/95
CN code Description Customs duties
2205 Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes flavoured with plants or aromatic
substances
2205 10 – In containers holding 2 litres or less:
2205 10 10 – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume of 18 % vol or less EA
2205 10 90 – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 18 % vol EA
2205 90 – Other:
2205 90 10 – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume of 18 % vol or less EA
2205 90 90 – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 18 % vol EA
2207 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol or
higher; ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength:
2207 10 00 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of less than EA
80 % vol; spirits, liqueurs and other spirituous beverages:
2207 20 00 – Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength EA
2208 40 – Rum and taffia:
– – In containers holding 2 litres or less:
2208 40 11 – – – Rum with a content of volatile substances other than ethyl and methyl EA
alcohol equal to or exceeding 225 grams per hectolitre of pure alcohol
(with a 10 % tolerance)
– – – Other:
2208 40 31 – – – – Of a value exceeding EUR 7,9 per litre of pure alcohol EA
2208 40 39 – – – – Other EA
– – In containers holding more than two litres:
2208 40 51 – – – Rum with a content of volatile substances other than ethyl and methyl EA
alcohol equal to or exceeding 225 grams per hectolitre of pure alcohol
(with a 10 % tolerance)
– – – Other:
2208 40 91 – – – – Of a value exceeding EUR 2 per litre of pure alcohol EA
2208 40 99 – – – – Other EA
– – Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of less
than 80 % vol, in containers holding:
2208 90 91 – – – 2 litres or less EA
2208 90 99 – – – More than 2 litres EA
2905 Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated
derivatives:
– Other polyhydric alcohols:
2905 43 00 – – Mannitol 0 % + EA
2905 44 – – D-glucitol (sorbitol):
– – – In aqueous solution:
2905 44 11 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the 0 % + EA
D-glucitol content
2905 44 19 – – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – – Other
2905 44 91 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the 0 % + EA
D-glucitol content
2905 44 99 – – – – Other 0 % + EAL 265/96 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
CN code Description Customs duties
3302 Mixtures of odoriferous substances and mixtures (including alcoholic
solutions) with a basis of one or more of these substances, of a kind used as
raw materials in industry; other preparations based on odoriferous substances,
of a kind used for the manufacture of beverages:
3302 10 10 – – – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 0,5 % EA
– – – Other
3302 10 29 – – – Other 0 % + EA
3505 Dextrins and other modified starches (for example, pregelatinised or esterified
starches); glues based on starches, or on dextrins or other modified starches:
3505 10 – Dextrins and other modified starches:
3505 10 10 – – Dextrins 0 % + EA
– – Other modified starches:
3505 10 90 – – – Other 0 % + EA
3505 20 – Glues:
3505 20 10 – – Containing by weight 25 % or more of starches or dextrins or other 0 % + EA
modified starches
3505 20 30 – – Containing, by weight, 25 % or more but less than 55 % of starches or 0 % + EA
dextrins or other modified starches
3505 20 50 – – Containing, by weight, 55 % or more but less than 80 % of starches or 0 % + EA
dextrins or other modified starches
3505 20 90 – – Containing, by weight, 80 % or more of starches or dextrins or other 0 % + EA
modified starches
3809 Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and
other products and preparations (for example, dressings and mordants), of a
kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere speci-
fied or included:
3809 10 – With a basis of amylaceous substances
3809 10 10 – – Containing by weight of such substances 55 % or more but less than 0 % + EA
55 %
3809 10 30 – – Containing by weight of such substances 55 % or more but less than 0 % + EA
70 %
3809 10 50 – – Containing by weight of such substances 70 % or more but less than 0 % + EA
83 %
3809 10 90 – – Containing by weight of such substances 83 % or more 0 % + EA
3824 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores; chemical products and prepa-
rations of the chemical or allied industries (including those consisting of mix-
tures of natural products), not elsewhere specified or included;
3824 60 – Sorbitol other than that of heading No 2905 44:
– – In aqueous solution:
3824 60 11 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the 0 % + EA
D-glucitol content
3824 60 19 – – – Other 0 % + EA
– – Other
3824 60 91 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the 0 % + EA
D-glucitol content
3824 60 99 – – – Other 0 % + EA10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/97
PROTOCOL No 5: ANNEX 2
ALGERIA SCHEDULE
Preferential rights accorded by Algeria to products originating in the Community
List 1: immediate concessions
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
1518 00 1518 00 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, boiled, oxidised,
dehydrated, sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert gas
or otherwise chemically modified, excluding those of heading No 1516;
inedible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of
fractions of different fats or oils of this chapter, not elsewhere specified
or included:
1518 00 10 1518 00 10 – Linoxyn 30 % 100 %
– Other:
1518 00 90 1518 00 91 – – Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, boiled, oxidised,
dehydrated, sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vacuum or in
inert gas or otherwise chemically modified, excluding those of heading
No 1516
– – Other: 30 % 100 %
1518 00 95 – – – Inedible mixtures or preparations of animal or of animal and vegetable
fats and oils and their fractions
1518 00 99 – – – Other
1704 1704 Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not containing cocoa:
1704 10 1704 10 – Chewing gum, whether or not sugar-coated:
– – Containing less than 60 % by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar
expressed as sucrose):
1704 10 00 1704 10 11 – – – Gum in strips 30 % 20 %
1704 10 19 – – – Other
– – Containing 60 % or more by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar
expressed as sucrose):
1704 10 91 – – – Gum in strips
1704 10 99 – – – Other
1704 90 1704 90 – Other:
1704 90 00 1704 90 10 – – Liquorice extract containing more than 10 % by weight of sucrose but not
containing other added substances
1704 90 30 – – White chocolate
– – Other:
1704 90 51 – – – Pastes, including marzipan, in immediate packings of a net content of
1 kg or more
1704 90 55 – – – Throat pastilles and cough drops
1704 90 61 – – – Sugar coated (panned) goods 30 % 25 %
– – – Other:
1704 90 65 – – – – Gum confectionery and jelly confectionery, including fruit pastes in
the form of sugar confectionery
1704 90 71 – – – – Boiled sweets, whether or not filled
1704 90 75 – – – – Toffees, caramels and similar sweets
– – – Other
1704 90 81 – – – – – Compressed tablets
1704 90 99 – – – OtherL 265/98 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
1805 00 00 1805 00 00 Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter 15 % 50 %
1806 1806 Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa:
1806 31 00 1806 31 00 – – Filled 30 % 25 %
1806 90 1806 90 – Other:
– – Chocolate and chocolate products:
– – – Chocolates, whether or not filled:
1806 90 00 1806 90 11 – – – – Containing alcohol
1806 90 19 – – – – Other
– – – Other:
30 % 25 %
1806 90 31 – – – – Filled
1806 90 39 – – – – Not filled
1806 90 50 – – Sugar confectionery and substitutes therefor made from sugar substitu-
tion products, containing cocoa
1806 90 60 – – Spreads containing cocoa
1806 90 70 – – Preparations containing cocoa for making beverages
1806 90 90 – – Other
1901 1901 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, meal, starch or malt extract, not con-
taining cocoa or containing less than 40 % by weight of cocoa calculated on a
totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included; food preparations of
goods of heading Nos 0401 to 0404, not containing cocoa or containing less
than 5 % by weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not else-
where specified or included:
1901 10 10 ex 1901 10 00 – Preparations for infant use, put up for retail sale 5 % 100 %
1901 10 20 5 % 100 %
1901 90 1901 90 – Other:
– – Malt extract:
1901 90 00 1901 90 11 – – – With a dry extract content of 90 % or more by weight
1901 90 19 – – – Other
30 % 100 %
– – Other:
1901 90 91 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or con-
taining less than 1,5 % milk fat, 5 % sucrose (including invert sugar)
or isoglucose, 5 % glucose or starch, excluding food preparations in
powder form of goods of heading Nos. 0401 to 0404
1901 90 99 – – – Other
1902 1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or oth-
erwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli,
cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared:
1902 20 1902 20 – Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or otherwise prepared
1902 20 00 1902 20 91 – – Other:
30 % 30 %
1902 20 99 – – – Cooked
– – – Other10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/99
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
1905 1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not containing
cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical
use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products:
– Sweet biscuits; waffles and wafers
1905 31 1905 31 – – – Sweet biscuits:
– – Completely or partially coated or covered with chocolate or other prepa-
rations containing cocoa:
1905 31 00 1905 31 11 – – In immediate packings of a net content not exceeding 85g
1905 31 19 – – – – Other
– – – Other:
1905 31 30 – – – – Containing 8 % or more by weight of milk fats
– – – Other 30 % 25 %
1905 31 91 – – – – – Sandwich biscuits
1905 31 99 – – – Other
1905 39 00 1905 32 – – – Waffles and wafers:
– – Completely or partially coated or covered with chocolate or other prepa-
rations containing cocoa:
1905 32 11 – – In immediate packings of a net content not exceeding 85g
1905 32 19 – – – – Other
– – – Other:
1905 32 91 – – – – Salted, whether or not filled
1905 32 99 – – – – Other
1905 90 1905 90 – Other:
1905 90 10 1905 90 10 – – Matzos
1905 90 20 1905 90 20 – – Communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical
1905 90 30 use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products
1905 90 90 – – Other:
1905 90 30 – – – Bread, not containing added honey, eggs, cheese or fruit, and contain-
ing by weight in the dry matter state not more than 5 % of sugars and
not more than 5 % of fat
30 % 25 %
1905 90 40 – – – Waffles and wafers with a water content exceeding 10 % by weight
1905 90 45 – – – Biscuits
1905 90 55 – – – Extruded or expanded products, savoury or salted
– – – Other:
1905 90 60 – – – – With added sweetening matter
1905 90 90 – – – – Other
2005 2005 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic
acid, frozen, other than products of heading No 2006:
2005 80 00 2005 80 00 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata) 30 % 100 %L 265/100 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
2102 2102 Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-cell micro-organisms, dead (but not 15 % 100 % within
including vaccines of No 3002); prepared baking powders: the limit of
3 000 tonnes
2102 10 2102 10 – Active yeasts
2102 10 00 2102 10 10 – – Culture yeast
– – Bakers’ yeast:
2102 10 31 – – – Dried
2102 10 39 – – – Other
2102 10 90 – – Other
2102 30 00 2102 30 00 – Prepared baking powders 15 % 30 %
2103 2103 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed condiments and mixed seasonings;
mustard flour and meal and prepared mustard:
2103 90 90 2103 90 90 – – Other 30 % 100 %
2104 2104 Soups and broths and preparations therefor; harmonised composite food
preparations:
2104 10 2104 10 – Soups and broths and preparations therefor
2104 10 00 2104 10 10 – – Dried 30 % 100 %
2104 10 90 – – Other
2105 2105 00 Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not containing cocoa:
2105 00 00 2105 00 10 – Containing no milk fats or containing less than 3 % by weight of such fats
– Containing by weight of milk fats:
30 % 20 %
2105 00 91 – – 3 % or more but less than 7 %
2105 00 99 – – 7 % or more
2106 2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included:
2106 90 10 2106 90 – Other: 15 %
2106 90 10 – – Cheese fondues
100 % within
the limit of
2106 90 20 – – Compound alcoholic preparations, other than those based on odorifer-
2 000 tonnes
ous substances, of a kind used for the manufacture of beverages
– – Other:
2106 90 90 2106 90 92 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or con-
taining by weight less than 1,5 % milk fat, 5 % sucrose or isoglucose,
5 % glucose or starch 30 %
2106 90 98 – – – Other
2201 2201 Waters, including natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, not
containing added sugar or other sweetening matter nor flavoured; ice and
snow:
2201 10 2201 10 – Mineral waters and aerated waters:
– – Natural mineral waters:
2201 10 00 2201 10 11 – – – Not carbonated 30 % 20 %
2201 10 19 – – – Other
2201 10 90 – – Other:10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/101
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
2202 2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or
other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages, not
including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No 2009:
2202 90 2202 90 – Other:
2202 90 00 2202 90 10 – – Not containing products of Nos 0401 to 0404 or fat obtained from prod-
ucts of Nos. 0401 to 0404
– – Other, containing by weight of fat obtained from the products of heading
Nos 0401 to 0404: 30 % 30 %
2202 90 91 – – – Less than 0,2 % by weight
2202 90 95 – – – 0,2 % or more but less than 2 %
2202 90 99 – – 2 % or more
2203 2203 00 Beer made from malt:
– In containers holding 10 litres or less:
2203 00 00 2203 00 01 – – In bottles 100 % within
30 % the limit of
2203 00 09 – – Other 500 tonnes
2203 00 10 – In containers holding more than 10 litres
2208 2208 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of less than 80 %
vol; spirits, liqueurs and other spirituous beverages:
2208 30 00 2208 30 – Whiskies 30 % 100 %
2208 40 00 2208 40 – Rum and taffia 30 % 100 %
2208 50 00 2208 50 – Gin and Geneva 30 % 100 %
2208 60 00 2208 60 – Vodka 30 % 100 %
2208 70 00 2208 70 – Liqueurs and cordials 30 % 100 %
2905 2905 Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated
derivatives:
– Other polyhydric alcohols:
2905 43 00 2905 43 00 – – Mannitol 15 % 100 %
2905 44 2905 44 – – D-glucitol (sorbitol): 15 % 100 %
– – – In aqueous solution:
2905 44 00 2905 44 11 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the
D-glucitol content
2905 44 19 – – – – Other
– – – Other
2905 44 91 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the
D-glucitol content
2905 44 99 – – – – Other
2905 45 00 2905 45 00 – – Glycerol 15 % 100 %
3301 3301 Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including concretes and absolutes; extracted
oleoresins; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in fixed oils, in waxes or the
like, obtained by enfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products of the deter-
penation of essential oils; aqueous distillates and aqueous solutions of essential
oils:
3301 90 3301 90 – Other:
3301 90 00 3301 90 10 – – Terpenic by-products of the deterpenation of essential oils
– – Extracted oleoresins:
15 % 100 %
3301 90 21 – – – Of liquorice and hops
3301 90 30 – – – Other
3301 90 90 – – OtherL 265/102 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
3302 3302 Mixtures of odoriferous substances and mixtures (including alcoholic solutions)
with a basis of one or more of these substances, of a kind used as raw materials
in industry; other preparations based on odoriferous substances, of a kind used
for the manufacture of beverages:
3302 10 3302 10 Of a kind used in the food or drink industries
– – Of a kind used in the drink industries:
– – – Preparations containing all flavouring agents characterising a beverage:
3302 10 00 3302 10 10 – – – – Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 0,5 %
15 % 100 %
– – – Other
3302 10 21 – – – – – Containing no milkfats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch
or containing, by weight, less than 1,5 % milkfat, 5 % sucrose or iso-
glucose, 5 % glucose or starch
3302 10 29 – – – Other
3501 3501 Casein, caseinates and other casein derivatives; casein glues:
3501 10 3501 10 – Casein:
3501 10 00 3501 10 10 – – For the manufacture of regenerated textile fibres
15 % 100 %
3501 10 50 – – For industrial uses other than the manufacture of foodstuffs or fodder
3501 10 90 – – Other
3501 90 3501 90 – Other:
15 % 100 %
3501 90 90 3501 90 90 – – Other
3505 3505 Dextrins and other modified starches (for example, pregelatinised or esterified
starches); glues based on starches, or on dextrins or other modified starches:
3505 10 3505 10 – Dextrins and other modified starches: 15 % 100 %
3505 10 00 3505 10 10 – – Dextrins
– – Other modified starches:
3505 10 90 – – – Other
3505 20 3505 20 – Glues:
3505 20 00 3505 20 10 – – Containing by weight 25 % or more of starches or dextrins or other modi-
fied starches
3505 20 30 – – Containing, by weight, 25 % or more but less than 55 % of starches or
dextrins or other modified starches 30 % 100 %
3505 20 50 – – Containing, by weight, 55 % or more but less than 80 % of starches or
dextrins or other modified starches
3505 20 90 – – Containing, by weight, 80 % or more of starches or dextrins or other
modified starches10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/103
Algerian Equivalent CN MFN Algerian
Description Reduction %
nomenclature code tariff
3809 3809 Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and
other products and preparations (for example, dressings and mordants), of a
kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere specified
or included:
3809 10 3809 10 – With a basis of amylaceous substances
3809 10 00 3809 10 10 – – Containing by weight of such substances 55 % or more but less than 55 %
3809 10 30 – – Containing by weight of such substances 55 % or more but less than 70 %
15 % 100 %
3809 10 50 – – Containing by weight of such substances 70 % or more but less than 83 %
3809 10 90 – – Containing by weight of such substances 83 % or more
3823 3823 Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining; industrial fatty
alcohols:
– Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining:
3823 11 00 3823 11 00 – – Stearic acid
3823 12 00 3823 12 00 – – Oleic acid
3823 13 00 3823 13 00 – – Tall oil fatty acids
3823 19 3823 19 – – Other: 15 % 100 %
3823 19 00 3823 19 10 – – – Distilled fatty acids
3823 19 30 – – – Fatty acid distillate
3823 19 90 – – – Other
3823 70 00 3823 70 00 – Industrial fatty alcohols
3824 3824 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores; chemical products and prepa-
rations of the chemical or allied industries (including those consisting of mix-
tures of natural products), not elsewhere specified or included;
3824 60 3824 60 – Sorbitol other than that of heading No 2905 44
– – In aqueous solution:
3824 60 00 3824 60 11 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the
D-glucitol content
3824 60 19 – – – Other 15 % 100 %
– – Other
3824 60 91 – – – – Containing 2 % or less by weight of D-mannitol, calculated on the
D-glucitol content
3824 60 99 – – – OtherL 265/104 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
List 2: Deferred concessions (Article 15 of the Agreement)
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
0403 0403 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yoghurt, kephir and other fermented or acidified milk and cream, whether
or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured of containing added fruit
or cocoa:
0403 10 0403 10 – Yoghurt:
– – Flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa:
– – – In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 10 00 0403 10 51 – – – 1,5 % or less
0403 10 53 – – – – Exceeding 1,5 % but not exceeding 27 %
0403 10 59 – – – Exceeding 27 %
– – – Other, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 10 91 – – – Not exceeding 3 %
0403 10 93 – – – – Exceeding 3 % but not exceeding 6 %
0403 10 99 – – – Exceeding 6 %
0403 90 0403 90 – Other:
– – Flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa:
– – – In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 90 00 0403 90 71 – – – 1,5 % or less
0403 90 73 – – – – Exceeding 1,5 % but not exceeding 27 %
0403 90 79 – – – Exceeding 27 %
– – – Other, of a milkfat content, by weight:
0403 90 91 – – – Not exceeding 3 %
0403 90 93 – – – – Exceeding 3 % but not exceeding 6 %
0403 90 99 – – – Exceeding 6 %
0405 0405 Butter and other fats and oils derived from milk; dairy spreads:
0405 20 0405 20 – Dairy spreads:
0405 20 00 0405 20 10 – – Of a fat content, by weight, of 39 % or more but less than 60 %
0405 20 30 – – Of a fat content, by weight, of 60 % or more but not exceeding 75 %
0501 00 00 0501 00 00 Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or scoured; waste of human hair
0502 0502 Pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair; badger hair and other brush making hair; waste of such bristles or hair:
0503 00 00 0503 00 00 Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up as a layer with or without supporting material
0505 0505 Skins and other parts of birds, with their feathers or down, feathers and parts of feathers (whether or not with
trimmed edges) and down, not further worked than cleaned, disinfected or treated for preservation; powder and
waste of feathers or parts of feathers:
0506 0506 Bones and horn-cores, unworked, defatted, simply prepared (but not cut to shape), treated with acid or degela-
tinised; powder and waste of these products:
0507 0507 Ivory, tortoise-shell, whalebone and whalebone hair, horns, antlers, hooves, nails, claws and beaks, unworked or
simply prepared but not cut to shape; powder and waste of these products:
0508 00 00 0508 00 00 Coral and similar materials unworked or simply prepared but not otherwise worked. Shells of molluscs, crusta-
ceans or echinoderms and cuttle-bone, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape, powder and waste
thereof10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/105
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
0509 00 0509 00 Natural sponges of animal origin
0510 00 00 0510 00 00 Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk; cantharides; bile, whether or not dried, gland and other animal products
used in the preparation of pharmaceutical products, fresh, chilled, frozen or otherwise provisionally preserved
0710 0710 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water), frozen:
0710 40 00 0710 40 00 – Sweet corn
0711 0711 Vegetables provisionally preserved (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water or in other
preservative solutions), but unsuitable in that state for immediate consumption:
0711 90 0711 90 – Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables:
– – Vegetables:
0711 90 00 0711 90 30 – – – Sweet corn
0903 00 00 0903 00 00 Maté
1212 1212 Locust beans, seaweeds and other algae, sugar beet and sugar cane, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried, whether or not
ground; fruit stones and kernels and other vegetable products (including unroasted chicory roots of the variety
Cichorium intybus sativum) of a kind used primarily for human consumption, not elsewhere specified or included:
1212 20 00 1212 20 00 – seaweed and other algae:
1302 1302 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances, pectinates and pectates; agar-agar and other mucilages and thick-
eners, whether or not modified, derived from vegetable products:
– Vegetable saps and extracts:
1302 12 00 1302 12 00 – – Of liquorice
1302 13 00 1302 13 00 – – Of hops
1302 14 00 1302 14 00 – – Of pyrethrum or of the roots of plants containing rotenone
1302 19 1302 19 – – Other:
1302 19 00 1302 19 30 – – – Intermixtures of vegetable extracts, for the manufacture of beverages or of food preparations
– – – Other:
1302 20 1302 19 91 – – – – Medicinal
1302 20 – Pectic substances, pectinates and pectates:
1302 31 00 1302 31 00 – – Agar-agar
1302 32 1302 32 – – Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified, derived from locust beans, locust bean seeds or guar
seeds:
1302 32 00 1302 32 10 – – – Of locust beans or locust bean seeds
1401 1401 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily for plaiting (for example, bamboos, rattans, reeds, rushes, osier, raf-
fia, cleaned, bleached or dyed cereal straw, and lime bark):
1402 00 00 1402 00 00 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily as stuffing or as padding (for example, kapok, vegetable hair and
eel-grass), whether or not put up as a layer with or without supporting material
1403 00 00 1403 00 00 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily in brooms or in brushes (for example, broomcorn piassava, couch-
grass and istle), whether or not in hanks or bundles
1404 1404 Vegetable products not elsewhere specified or included:
1505 1505 Wool grease and fatty substances derived therefrom (including lanolin):
1506 00 00 1506 00 00 Other animal fats and oils and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified
1515 1515 Other fixed vegetable fats and oils (including jojoba oil) and their fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemi-
cally modified:
1515 90 91 1515 90 15 – – Oiticica oils; myrtle wax; Japan wax; their fractionsL 265/106 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
1516 1516 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, partly or wholly hydrogenated, inter-esterified, re-esterified
or elaidinised, whether or not refined, but not further prepared:
1516 20 1516 20 – Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions:
1516 20 10 – – Hydrogenated castor oil, so called ‘opal-wax’
1517 1517 Margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different fats or
oils of this Chapter, other than edible fats or oils or their fractions of heading No 1516
1517 10 00 1517 10 – Margarine, excluding liquid margarine:
1517 10 10 – – Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk fats
1517 90 1517 90 – Other:
1517 90 00 1517 90 10 – – Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk fats
– – Other:
1517 90 93 – – – Edible mixtures or preparations of a kind used as mould release preparation
1520 00 00 1520 00 00 Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and glycerol lyes
1521 1521 Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides), beeswax, other insect waxes and spermaceti, whether or not refined
or coloured:
1521 10 00 1521 10 00 – Vegetable waxes
1521 90 1521 90 – Other:
1521 90 00 1521 90 10 – – Spermaceti, whether or not refined or coloured
– – Beeswax and other insect waxes, whether or not refined or coloured:
1521 90 91 – Raw
1521 90 99 – – – Other
1522 00 1522 00 Degras; residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes:
1522 00 00 1522 00 10 – Degras
1702 1702 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose, maltose, glucose and fructose, in solid form; sugar syrups not
containing added flavouring or colouring matter; artificial honey, whether or not mixed with natural honey; Cara-
mel:
1702 50 00 1702 50 00 – Chemically pure fructose
1702 90 1702 90 Other, including invert sugar: and other sugars and sugar sirops, containing in the dry state 50 % by weight of
1702 90 00 1702 90 10 fructose
– – Chemically pure maltose
1803 1803 Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted:
1804 00 00 1804 00 00 Cocoa butter, fat and oil
1806 1806 Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa:
1806 10 1806 10 – Cocoa powder, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter:
1806 20 1806 20 – Other preparations in blocks, slabs or bars weighing more than 2 kg or in liquid, paste, powder, granular or
other bulk form in containers or immediate packings, of a content exceeding 2 kg:
1806 32 1806 32 – – Not filled
1901 1901 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, meal, starch or malt extract, not containing cocoa or containing less than
40 % by weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included; food prepa-
rations of goods of heading Nos 0401 to 0404, not containing cocoa or containing less than 5 % by weight of
cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included:
1901 10 30 ex 1901 10 00 – Preparations for infant use, put up for retail sale
1901 20 00 1901 20 00 – Mixes and doughs for the preparation of bakers’ wares of heading No 190510.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/107
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
1902 1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or otherwise prepared, such as spaghetti,
macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared:
– Uncooked pasta, not stuffed or otherwise prepared:
1902 11 00 1902 11 00 – – Containing eggs
1902 19 1902 19 – – Other:
1902 30 1902 30 – Other pasta:
1902 40 1902 40 – Couscous:
1903 00 00 1903 00 00 Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from starch, in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, siftings or similar
forms
1904 1904 Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products (for example, corn flakes); cere-
als (other than maize (corn)) in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour and meal),
pre-cooked, or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included:
1904 10 1904 10 – Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products:
1904 20 1904 20 – Prepared foods obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and roasted
cereal flakes or swelled cereals:
1904 90 1904 90 – Other:
1905 1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not containing cocoa; communion wafers,
empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products:
1905 10 00 1905 10 00 – Crispbread
1905 20 1905 20 – Gingerbread and the like:
1905 40 1905 40 – Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted products:
2001 2001 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid:
2001 90 2001 90 – Other:
2001 90 90 2001 90 30 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata)
2001 90 40 – – Yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of plants containing 5 % or more by weight of starch
2001 90 60 – – Palm hearts
2004 2004 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen, other than products of
heading No 2006:
2004 10 2004 10 – Potatoes:
– – Other:
2004 10 00 2004 10 91 – – in the form of flour, meal or flakes,
2004 90 2004 90 – Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables:
2004 90 90 2004 90 10 – – Sweet corn (zea mays var. saccharata)
2005 2005 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen, other than products of
heading No 2006:
2005 20 2005 20 – Potatoes:
2005 20 00 2005 20 10 – – In the form of flour, meal or flakes,
2008 2008 Fruits, nuts and other edible parts of plants, otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added
sugar or other sweetening matter or spirit, not elsewhere specified or included:
– Nuts, ground-nuts and other seeds, whether or not mixed together:
2008 11 2008 11 – – Ground-nuts:
2008 11 00 2008 11 10 – – – Peanut butter
– Other, including mixtures other than those of subheading 2008 19:
2008 91 00 2008 91 00 – – Palm heartsL 265/108 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
2008 99 2008 99 – – Other:
2008 99 00 – – – Not containing added spirit:
– – – – Not containing added sugar:
2008 99 85 – – – – – Maize (corn), other than sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata)
2008 99 91 – – – – – Yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of plants, containing 5 % or more by weight of starch
2101 2101 Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee, tea or maté preparations with a basis of these products or with a
basis of coffee, tea or maté; roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes and extracts, essences and con-
centrates, thereof:
– Extracts, essences and concentrates of coffee, and preparations with a basis of these extracts, essences or con-
centrates or with a basis of coffee:
2101 11 2101 11 – – Extracts, essences and concentrates:
2101 12 2101 12 – – Preparations with a basis of these extracts, essences or concentrates or with a basis of coffee:
2101 20 2101 20 – Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté, and preparations with a basis of these extracts, essences
or concentrates, or with a basis of tea or maté:
2101 30 2101 30 – Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes, and extracts, essences and concentrates thereof:
2102 2102 Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-cell micro-organisms, dead (but not including vaccines of N° 3002); pre-
pared baking powders:
2102 20 2102 20 – Inactive yeasts; other single-cell micro-organisms, dead:
– – Inactive yeasts:
2102 20 00 2102 20 11 – – – In tablet, cube or similar form, or in immediate packings of a net content not exceeding 1 kg.
2102 20 19 – – – Other
2102 20 90 – – Other
2103 2103 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed condiments and mixed seasonings; mustard flour and meal and pre-
pared mustard:
2103 10 00 2103 10 00 – Soya sauce
2103 20 00 2103 20 00 – Tomato ketchup and other tomato sauces
2103 30 2103 30 – Mustard flour and meal and prepared mustard:
2103 90 2103 90 – Other:
2103 90 10 2103 90 10 – – Mango chutney, liquid
2103 90 30 – – Aromatic bitters of an alcoholic strength by volume of 44,2 to 49,2 % vol containing from 1,5 to 6 % by
weight of gentian, spices and various ingredients and from 4 to 10 % of sugar, in containers holding 0,5 litre
or less
2104 2104 Soups and broths and preparations therefor; harmonised composite food preparations:
2104 20 00 2104 20 00 – Harmonised composite food preparations
2106 2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included:
2106 10 2106 10 – Protein concentrates and textured protein substances:
2106 10 00 2106 10 20 – – – Containing no milk fats, sucrose, isoglucose, glucose or starch or containing by weight less than 1,5 %
milk fat, 5 % sucrose or isoglucose, 5 % glucose or starch
2106 10 80 – – Other
2201 2201 Waters, including natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, not containing added sugar or other
sweetening matter nor flavoured; ice and snow:
2201 90 00 2201 90 00 – Other10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/109
Algerian
Equivalent CN code Description
nomenclature
2202 2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or
flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages, not including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No 2009:
2202 10 00 2202 10 00 – Waters including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or
flavoured
2205 2205 Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes flavoured with plants or aromatic substances
2205 10 2205 10 – In containers holding 2 litres or less:
2205 90 2205 90 – Other:
2207 2207 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol or higher; ethyl alcohol and other spir-
its, denatured, of any strength:
2208 2208 Undenatured ethyl alcohol strength by volume of less than 80 % vol; spirits, liqueurs and other spirituous bev-
erages:
2208 20 00 2208 20 – Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape marc:
2208 90 00 2208 90 – Other:
2402 2402 Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, of tobacco or of tobacco substitutes:
2402 10 00 2402 10 00 – Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco
2402 20 2402 20 – Cigarettes containing tobacco:
2402 90 00 2402 90 00 – Other
2403 2403 Other manufactured tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes; ‘harmonised’ or ‘reconstituted’ tobacco;
tobacco extracts and essences:
2403 10 2403 10 – Smoking tobacco, whether or not containing tobacco substitutes in any proportion:
2403 91 00 2403 91 00 – – ‘Harmonised’ or ‘reconstituted’ tobacco
2403 99 2403 99 – – Other:L 265/110 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 6
concerning the definition of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation
TABLE OF CONTENTS
TITLE I — GENERAL PROVISIONS
— Article 1 Definitions
TITLE II — DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF ORIGINATING PRODUCTS
— Article 2 General provisions
— Article 3 Bilateral cumulation of origin
— Article 4 Cumulation with materials originating in Morocco or Tunisia
— Article 5 Cumulation of working or processing
— Article 6 Wholly obtained products
— Article 7 Sufficiently worked or processed products
— Article 8 Insufficient working or processing
— Article 9 Unit of qualification
— Article 10 Accessories, spare parts and tools
— Article 11 Sets
— Article 12 Neutral elements
TITRE III — TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS
— Article 13 Principle of territoriality
— Article 14 Direct transport
— Article 15 Exhibitions
TITLE IV — DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION
— Article 16 Prohibition of drawback of or exemption from customs duties
TITLE V — PROOF OF ORIGIN
— Article 17 General provisions
— Article 18 Procedure for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1
— Article 19 Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/111
— Article 20 Issue of a duplicate Movement certificate EUR.1
— Article 21 Issue of Movement certificates EUR.1 on the basis of proof of origin issued or made out pre-
viously
— Article 22 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration
— Article 23 Approved exporter
— Article 24 Validity of proof of origin
— Article 25 Submission of proof of origin
— Article 26 Importation by instalments
— Article 27 Exemptions from formal proof of origin
— Article 28 Declaration by the supplier and information certificate
— Article 29 Supporting documents
— Article 30 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents
— Article 31 Discrepancies and formal errors
— Article 32 Amounts expressed in euros
TITLE VI — METHODS OF ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION
— Article 33 Mutual assistance
— Article 34 Verification of proof of origin
— Article 35 Dispute settlement
— Article 36 Penalties
— Article 37 Free zones
TITLE VII — CEUTA AND MELILLA
— Article 38 Application of the Protocol
— Article 39 Special conditions
TITLE VIII — FINAL PROVISIONS
— Article 40 Amendments to the Protocol
— Article 41 Customs Cooperation Committee
— Article 42 Implementation of the Protocol
— Article 43 Arrangements with Morocco and Tunisia
— Article 44 Goods in transit or in storageL 265/112 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
ANNEXES
— Annex I Introductory notes to the list in Annex II
— Annex II List of working or processing required to be carried out on non-originating materials in order
that the product manufactured can obtain originating status
— Annex III Movement certificate EUR.1 and application for a movement certificate EUR.1
— Annex IV Invoice declaration
— Annex V Specimen of declaration by the supplier
— Annex VI Information certificate
— Annex VII Joint Declarations
TITLE I (i) ‘added value’ means the ex-works price minus the customs
value of each of the products incorporated which did not
GENERAL PROVISIONS originate in the country in which those products were
obtained;
Article 1
(j) ‘chapters’ and ‘headings’ mean the chapters and the headings
Definitions (four-digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up
the Harmonised Commodity Description and Coding Sys-
tem, referred to in this Protocol as ‘the Harmonised System’
For the purposes of this Protocol: or ‘HS’;
(a) ‘manufacture’ means any kind of working or processing (k) ‘classified’ refers to the classification of a product or material
including assembly or specific operations; under a particular heading;
(b) ‘material’ means any ingredient, raw material, component or (l) ‘consignment’ means products which are either sent simulta-
part, etc., used in the manufacture of the product; neously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a
single transport document covering their shipment from the
exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a docu-
(c) ‘product’ means the product being manufactured, even if it is ment, by a single invoice;
intended for later use in another manufacturing operation;
(m) ‘territories’ includes territorial waters.
(d) ‘goods’ means both materials and products;
(e) ‘customs value’ means the value as determined in accordance
with the 1994 Agreement on implementation of Article VII TITLE II
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (WTO Agree-
DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF ‘ORIGINATING PRODUCTS’
ment on customs valuation);
(f) ‘ex-works price’ means the price paid for the product ex Article 2
works to the manufacturer in the Community or in Algeria
General provisions
in whose undertaking the last working or processing is car-
ried out, provided the price includes the value of all the mate-
rials used, minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, 1. For the purpose of implementing this Agreement, the fol-
repaid when the product obtained is exported; lowing products shall be considered as originating in the
Community:
(g) ‘value of materials’ means the customs value at the time of
importation of the non-originating materials used, or, if this (a) products wholly obtained in the Community within the
is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertain- meaning of Article 6;
able price paid for the materials in the Community or in
Algeria;
(b) products obtained in the Community incorporating materi-
als which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that
(h) ‘value of originating materials’ means the value of such mate- such materials have undergone sufficient working or process-
rials as defined in (g) applied mutatis mutandis; ing in the Community within the meaning of Article 7.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/113
2. For the purpose of implementing this Agreement, the fol- 4. The provisions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 concerning
lowing products shall be considered as originating in Algeria: materials originating in Morocco are only applicable to the extent
that trade between the Community and Morocco and between
Algeria and Morocco, is governed by identical rules of origin.
(a) products wholly obtained in Algeria within the meaning of
Article 6;
Article 5
(b) products obtained in Algeria incorporating materials which
have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such Cumulation of working or processing
materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in
Algeria within the meaning of Article 7.
1. For the purpose of implementing Article 2(1)(b), working or
processing carried out in Algeria, or, when the conditions required
by Article 4(3) and (4) are fulfilled, in Morocco or in Tunisia shall
Article 3 be considered as having been carried out in the Community when
the products obtained undergo subsequent working or process-
Bilateral cumulation of origin
ing in the Community.
1. Materials originating in the Community shall be considered
2. For the purpose, of implementing Article 2(2)(b), working
as materials originating in Algeria when incorporated into a prod-
or processing carried out in the Community or, when the condi-
uct obtained there. It shall not be necessary that such materials
tions required by Article 4(3) and (4) are fulfilled, in Morocco
have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they
or in Tunisia shall be considered as having been carried out in
have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred
Algeria when the products obtained undergo subsequent work-
to in Article 8(1).
ing or processing in Algeria.
2. Materials originating in Algeria shall be considered as mate-
3. Where pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 or 2 the
rials originating in the Community when incorporated into a
originating products are obtained in two or more of the States
product obtained there. It shall not be necessary that such mate-
referred to in those provisions or in the Community, they shall be
rials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided
considered as originating products of the State or the Commu-
they have undergone working or processing going beyond that
nity according to where the last working or processing took place,
referred to in Article 8(1).
provided that that working or processing went beyond that
referred to in Article 8.
Article 4
Cumulation with materials originating in Morocco or
Article 6
Tunisia
Wholly obtained products
1. Notwithstanding Article 2(1)(b) and subject to the provi-
sions of paragraphs 3 and 4, materials originating in Morocco or 1. The following shall be considered as wholly obtained in the
Tunisia within the meaning of Protocol No 4 annexed to the Community or Algeria:
Agreements between the Community and these countries shall be
considered as originating in the Community and it shall not be
necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working (a) mineral products extracted from their soil or from their
or processing, on condition however that they have undergone seabed;
working or processing beyond that referred to in Article 8(1).
(b) vegetable products harvested there;
2. Notwithstanding Article 2(2)(b) and subject to the provi-
sions of paragraphs 3 and 4, materials originating in Morocco or
Tunisia within the meaning of Protocol No 4 annexed to the (c) live animals born and raised there;
Agreements between the Community and these countries shall be
considered as originating in Algeria and it shall not be necessary
that such materials have undergone sufficient working or process- (d) products from live animals raised there;
ing, on condition however that they have undergone working or
processing beyond that referred to in Article 8(1).
(e) products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there;
3. The provisions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 concerning
materials originating in Tunisia are only applicable to the extent (f) products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea
that trade between the Community and Tunisia and between outside the territorial waters of the Community or Algeria by
Algeria and Tunisia, is governed by identical rules of origin. their vessels;L 265/114 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
(g) products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from The conditions referred to above indicate, for all products cov-
products referred to in subparagraph (f); ered by the Agreement, the working or processing which must be
carried out on non-originating materials used in manufacturing
and apply only in relation to such materials. It follows that if a
(h) used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw product which has acquired originating status by fulfilling the
materials, including used tyres fit only for retreading or use conditions set out in the list is used in the manufacture of another
as waste; product, the conditions applicable to the product in which it is
incorporated do not apply to it, and no account shall be taken of
the non-originating materials which may have been used in its
(i) waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations manufacture.
conducted there;
2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials
which, according to the conditions set out in the list, should not
(j) products extracted from marine soil or subsoil outside their
be used in the manufacture of a product may nevertheless be
territorial waters provided that they have sole rights to work
used, provided that:
that soil or subsoil;
(a) their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price
(k) goods produced exclusively from products specified in sub- of the product;
paragraphs (a) to (j).
(b) any of the percentages given in the list for the maximum
value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through
2. The terms ‘their vessels’ and ‘their factory ships’ in para-
the application of this paragraph.
graph 1(f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships:
This paragraph shall not apply to products falling within Chap-
(a) which are registered or recorded in a Community Member ters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised System.
State or in Algeria;
3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply except as provided in
(b) which sail under the flag of a Community Member State or Article 8.
of Algeria;
(c) which are owned to an extent of at least 50 % by nationals of Article 8
a Community Member State or of Algeria, or by a company
with its head office in one of these States, of which the man- Insufficient working or processing operations
ager or managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors or the
Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such
1. Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations
boards are nationals of a Community Member State or of
shall be considered as insufficient working or processing to con-
Algeria and of which, in addition, in the case of partnerships
fer the status of originating products, whether or not the require-
or limited companies, at least half the capital belongs to those
ments of Article 7 are satisfied:
States or to public bodies or nationals of the said States;
(a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good
(d) of which the master and officers are nationals of Community condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spread-
Member States or of Algeria; ing out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or
other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like
operations);
and
(b) simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or
screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the
(e) of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of Commu-
making-up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up;
nity Member States or of Algeria.
(c) (i) changes of packaging and division and assembly of
packages;
Article 7
(ii) simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fix-
Sufficiently worked or processed products
ing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple pack-
aging operations;
1. For the purposes of Article 2, products which are not wholly
obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed (d) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on
when the conditions set out in the list in Annex II are fulfilled. products or their packaging;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/115
(e) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, Article 11
where one or more components of the mixtures do not meet
Sets
the conditions laid down in this Protocol to enable them to
be considered as originating in the Community or Algeria;
Sets, as defined in General Rule 3 of the Harmonised System, shall
be regarded as originating when all component products are
(f) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product; originating. Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating
and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded
as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating
(g) a combination of two or more operations specified in sub- products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
paragraphs (a) to (f);
(h) slaughter of animals.
Article 12
Neutral elements
2. All the operations carried out in either the Community or
Algeria on a given product shall be considered together when
determining whether the working or processing undergone by In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be
that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be
of paragraph 1. used in its manufacture:
(a) energy and fuel;
Article 9
(b) plant and equipment;
Unit of qualification
(c) machines and tools;
1. The unit of qualification for the application of the provi-
sions of this Protocol shall be the particular product which is con- (d) goods which do not enter and which are not intended to
sidered as the basic unit when determining classification using the enter into the final composition of the product.
nomenclature of the Harmonised System.
It follows that:
TITLE III
TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS
(a) when a product composed of a group or assembly of
articles is classified under the terms of the Harmonised Sys-
tem in a single heading, the whole constitutes the unit of
qualification;
Article 13
Principle of territoriality
(b) when a consignment consists of a number of identical prod-
ucts classified under the same heading of the Harmonised
System, each product must be taken individually when apply- 1. The conditions set out in Title II relative to the acquisition
ing the provisions of this Protocol. of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the
Community or in Algeria without prejudice to the provisions of
Articles 4 and 5.
2. Where, under General Rule 5 of the Harmonised System,
packaging is included with the product for classification purposes,
2. Except as provided for in Articles 4 and 5, where originat-
it shall be included for the purposes of determining origin.
ing goods exported from the Community or from Algeria to
another country return, they must be considered as non-
originating, unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the customs authorities that:
Article 10
(a) the returning goods are the same as those exported;
Accessories, spare parts and tools
and
Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of
equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the
normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are (b) they have not undergone any operation beyond that neces-
not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of sary to preserve them in good condition while in that coun-
equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question. try or while being exported.L 265/116 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 14 (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition
or immediately thereafter in the state in which they were sent
Direct transport
for exhibition;
1. The preferential treatment provided for under the Agree-
ment applies only to products, satisfying the requirements of this and
Protocol, which are transported directly between the Community
and Algeria or through the territories of the other countries
referred to in Articles 4 and 5. However, products constituting (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibi-
one single consignment may be transported through other terri- tion, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at
tories with, should the occasion arise, transhipment or temporary the exhibition.
warehousing in such territories, provided that they remain under
the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of tran-
sit or warehousing and do not undergo operations other than 2. A proof of origin must be issued or made out in accordance
unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them with the provisions of Title V and submitted to the customs
in good condition. authorities of the importing country in the normal manner. The
name and address of the exhibition must be indicated thereon.
Where necessary, additional documentary evidence of the condi-
Originating products may be transported by pipeline across ter-
tions under which they have been exhibited may be required.
ritory other than that of the Community or Algeria.
2. Evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 have
3. Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, industrial, agricultural
been fulfilled shall be supplied to the customs authorities of the
or crafts exhibition, fair or similar public show or display which
importing country by the production of:
is not organised for private purposes in shops or business pre-
mises with a view to the sale of foreign products, and during
(a) a single transport document covering the passage from the which the products remain under customs control.
exporting country through the country of transit; or
(b) a certificate issued by the customs authorities of the country
of transit:
TITLE IV
DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION
(i) giving an exact description of the products;
(ii) stating the dates of unloading and reloading of the prod-
ucts and, where applicable, the names of the ships, or the Article 16
other means of transport used;
Prohibition of drawback of or exemption from customs
duties
and
1. Non-originating materials used in the manufacture of prod-
(iii) certifying the conditions under which the products
ucts originating in the Community, in Algeria or in one of the
remained in the transit country; or
other countries referred to in Articles 4 and 5 for which a proof
of origin is issued or made out in accordance with the provisions
(c) failing these, any substantiating documents. of Title V shall not be subject in the Community or in Algeria to
drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties of whatever
kind.
Article 15
2. The prohibition in paragraph 1 shall apply to any arrange-
Exhibitions
ment for refund, remission or non-payment, partial or complete,
of customs duties or charges having an equivalent effect, appli-
1. Originating products, sent for exhibition in a country other cable in the Community or in Algeria to materials used in the
than those referred to in Articles 5 and 4 and sold after the exhi- manufacture, where such refund, remission or non-payment
bition for importation in the Community or in Algeria, shall ben- applies, expressly or in effect, when products obtained from the
efit on importation from the provisions of the Agreement said materials are exported and not when they are retained for
provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities home use there.
that:
3. The exporter of products covered by a proof of origin shall
(a) an exporter has consigned these products from the Commu-
be prepared to submit at any time, upon request from the cus-
nity or from Algeria to the country in which the exhibition is
toms authorities, all appropriate documents proving that no
held and has exhibited them there;
drawback has been obtained in respect of the non-originating
materials used in the manufacture of the products concerned and
(b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that that all customs duties or charges having equivalent effect appli-
exporter to a person in the Community or in Algeria; cable to such materials have actually been paid.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/117
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 shall also apply in 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within
respect of packaging within the meaning of Article 9(2), accesso- the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified in
ries, spare parts and tools within the meaning of Article 10 and Article 27, benefit from the Agreement without it being neces-
products in a set within the meaning of Article 11 when such sary to submit any of the documents referred to above.
items are non-originating.
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply only in
respect of materials which are of the kind to which the Agreement
applies. Furthermore, they shall not preclude the application of an Article 18
export refund system for agricultural products, applicable upon
Procedure for the issue of an EUR.1 movement certificate
export in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement.
6. The provisions of this Article shall not apply for six years
1. A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the cus-
following the entry into force of the Agreement.
toms authorities of the exporting country on application having
been made in writing by the exporter or, under the exporter’s
responsibility, by his authorised representative.
7. After the entry into force of the provisions of this Article
and notwithstanding paragraph 1, Algeria may apply arrange-
ments for drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties
or charges having an equivalent effect, applicable to materials 2. For this purpose, the exporter or his authorised representa-
used in the manufacture of originating products, subject to the
tive shall fill out both the movement certificate EUR.1 and the
following provisions:
application form, specimens of which appear in Annex III. These
forms shall be completed in one of the languages in which this
Agreement is drawn up and in accordance with the provisions of
(a) a 5 % rate of customs charge shall be retained in respect of
the domestic law of the exporting country. If they are hand-
products falling within Chapters 25 to 49 and 64 to 97 of
written, they shall be completed in ink in printed characters. The
the Harmonised System, or such lower rate as is in force in
description of the products must be given in the box reserved for
Algeria;
this purpose without leaving any blank lines. Where the box is
not completely filled, a horizontal line must be drawn below the
(b) a 10 % rate of customs charge shall be retained in respect of last line of the description, the empty space being crossed through.
products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonised
System, or such lower rate as is in force in Algeria.
3. The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certifi-
cate EUR.1 shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request
The provisions of this paragraph shall be reviewed before the end
of the customs authorities of the exporting country where the
of the transitional period referred to in Article 6 of the Agreement.
movement certificate EUR.1 is issued, all appropriate documents
proving the originating status of the products concerned as well
as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol.
TITLE V
PROOF OF ORIGIN 4. A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the cus-
toms authorities of an EC Member State or Algeria if the products
concerned can be considered as products originating in the Com-
munity, Algeria or in one of the other countries referred to in
Article 17
Articles 4 and 5 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol.
General provisions
1. Products originating in the Community shall, on importa- 5. The customs authorities issuing movement certificates
tion into Algeria, and products originating in Algeria shall, on EUR.1 shall take any steps necessary to verify the originating sta-
importation into the Community, benefit from the Agreement tus of the products and the fulfilment of the other requirements
upon submission of either: of this Protocol. For this purpose, they shall have the right to call
for any evidence and to carry out any inspection of the exporter’s
accounts or any other check considered appropriate. They shall
(a) a movement certificate EUR.1, a specimen of which appears also ensure that the forms referred to in paragraph 2 are duly
in Annex III; or completed. In particular, they shall check whether the space
reserved for the description of the products has been completed
in such a manner as to exclude all possibility of fraudulent
(b) in the cases specified in Article 22(1), a declaration, subse- additions.
quently referred to as the ‘invoice declaration’, given by the
exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commer-
cial document which describes the products concerned in
sufficient detail to enable them to be identified. The text of 6. The date of issue of the movement certificate EUR.1 shall be
the invoice declaration appears in Annex IV. indicated in Box 11 of the certificate.L 265/118 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
7. A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the cus- 5. The endorsement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be inserted
toms authorities and made available to the exporter as soon as in the ‘Remarks’ box of the movement certificate EUR.1.
actual exportation has been effected or ensured.
Article 20
Article 19
Issue of a duplicate movement certificate EUR.1
Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively
1. In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a movement cer-
1. Notwithstanding Article 18(7), a movement certificate tificate EUR.1, the exporter may apply to the customs authorities
EUR.1 may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the prod- which issued it for a duplicate made out on the basis of the export
ucts to which it relates if: documents in their possession.
(a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors 2. The duplicate issued in this way must be endorsed with one
or involuntary omissions or special circumstances; of the following words:
ES ‘DUPLICADO’
DA ‘DUPLIKAT’
or
DE ‘DUPLIKAT’
EL ‘ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ’
(b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authori-
EN ‘DUPLICATE’
ties that a movement certificate EUR.1 was issued but was
not accepted at importation for technical reasons. FR ‘DUPLICATA’
IT ‘DUPLICATO’
NL ‘DUPLICAAT’
2. For the implementation of paragraph 1, the exporter must
PT ‘SEGUNDA VIA’
indicate in his application the place and date of exportation of the
products to which the movement certificate EUR.1 relates, and FI ‘KAKSOISKAPPALE’
state the reasons for his request.
SV ‘DUPLIKAT’
DZ
3. The customs authorities may issue a movement certificate
EUR.1 retrospectively only after verifying that the information
3. The endorsement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be inserted
supplied in the exporter’s application agrees with that in the cor-
in the ‘Remarks’ box of the duplicate movement certificate EUR.1.
responding file.
4. The duplicate, which must bear the date of issue of the origi-
4. Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively must be
nal movement certificate EUR 1, shall take effect as from that
endorsed with one of the following phrases:
date.
ES ‘EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI’
DA ‘UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE’
DE ‘NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT’
Article 21
EL ‘ΕΚΔΟΘΕΝ ΕΚ ΤΩΝ ΥΣΤΕΡΩΝ’
Issue of movement certificates EUR.1 on the basis of a
EN ‘ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY’
proof of origin issued or made out previously
FR ‘DÉLIVRÉ A POSTERIORI’
IT ‘RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI’
When originating products are placed under the control of a cus-
NL ‘AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI’
toms office in the Community or in Algeria, it shall be possible to
PT ‘EMITIDO A POSTERIORI’ replace the original proof of origin by one or more movement
certificates EUR.1 for the purpose of sending all or some of these
FI ‘ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN’
products elsewhere within the Community or Algeria. The
SV ‘UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND’ replacement movement certificate(s) EUR.1 shall be issued by the
customs office under whose control the products are placed.
DZ10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/119
Article 22 2. The customs authorities may grant the status of approved
exporter subject to any conditions which they consider
Conditions for making out an invoice declaration
appropriate.
1. An invoice declaration as referred to in Article 17(1)(b) may
be made out:
3. The customs authorities shall grant to the approved exporter
a customs authorisation number which shall appear on the
(a) by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 23; invoice declaration.
or
4. The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the autho-
(b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or risation by the approved exporter.
more packages containing originating products whose total
value does not exceed EUR 6 000.
5. The customs authorities may withdraw the authorisation at
2. An invoice declaration may be made out if the products
any time. They shall do so where the approved exporter no longer
concerned can be considered as products originating in the Com-
offers the guarantees referred to in paragraph 1, no longer fulfils
munity, in Algeria or in one of the other countries referred to in
the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 or otherwise makes an
Articles 4 and 5 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol.
incorrect use of the authorisation.
3. The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall be pre-
pared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authori-
ties of the exporting country, all appropriate documents proving
the originating status of the products concerned as well as the ful-
Article 24
filment of the other requirements of this Protocol.
Validity of proof of origin
4. An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter by
typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or
another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which
1. A proof of origin shall be valid for four months from the
appears in Annex IV, using one of the linguistic versions set out
date of issue in the exporting country, and must be submitted
in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the
within the said period to the customs authorities of the import-
domestic law of the exporting country. If the declaration is hand-
ing country.
written, it shall be written in ink in printed characters.
5. Invoice declarations shall bear the original signature of the
exporter in manuscript. However, an approved exporter within 2. Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authori-
the meaning of Article 23 shall not be required to sign such dec- ties of the importing country after the final date for presentation
larations provided that he gives the customs authorities of the specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of
exporting country a written undertaking that he accepts full applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these
responsibility for any invoice declaration which identifies him as documents by the final date set is due to exceptional
if it had been signed in manuscript by him. circumstances.
6. An invoice declaration may be made out by the exporter
when the products to which it relates are exported, or after expor-
3. In other cases of belated presentation, the customs authori-
tation on condition that it is presented in the importing country
ties of the importing country may accept the proofs of origin
no longer than two years after the importation of the products to
where the products have been submitted before the said final date.
which it relates.
Article 23
Article 25
Approved exporter
Submission of proof of origin
1. The customs authorities of the exporting country may
authorise any exporter, hereinafter referred to as ‘approved
exporter’ who makes frequent shipments of products under the Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of
Agreement to make out invoice declarations irrespective of the the importing country in accordance with the procedures appli-
value of the products concerned. An exporter seeking such autho- cable in that country. The said authorities may require a transla-
risation must offer to the satisfaction of the customs authorities tion of a proof of origin. They may also require the import
all guarantees necessary to verify the originating status of the declaration to be accompanied by a statement from the importer
products as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this to the effect that the products meet the conditions required for the
Protocol. implementation of the Agreement.L 265/120 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 26 2. The customs office concerned may ask the exporter to pro-
duce the information certificate issued as provided for in para-
Importation by instalments
graph 3, of which a specimen is given in Annex VII, either in
order to check the authenticity and accuracy of information given
on the declaration provided for in paragraph 1, or in order to
obtain additional information.
Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid
down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dis-
mantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of Gen-
eral Rule 2(a) of the Harmonised System falling within
3. The information certificate concerning the products used
Sections XVI and XVII or headings 7308 and 9406 of the Har-
shall be issued at the request of the exporter of these products,
monised System are imported by instalments, a single proof of
either in the circumstances set out in paragraph 2 or at the
origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs
exporter’s initiative, by the competent customs office in the State
authorities upon importation of the first instalment.
from which the goods were exported. It shall be made out in
duplicate. One copy shall be given to the exporter who has
requested it, who shall send it either to the exporter of the final
products or to the customs office where the issue of the EUR.1
movement certificate for these products has been requested. The
Article 27 second copy shall be preserved for at least three years by the cus-
toms office which has issued it.
Exemptions from formal proof of origin
1. Products sent as small packages from private persons to pri-
vate persons or forming part of travellers’ personal luggage shall
Article 29
be admitted as originating products without requiring the submis-
sion of a proof of origin, provided that such products are not Supporting documents
imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the
requirements of this Protocol and where there is no doubt as to
the veracity of such a declaration. In the case of products sent by
post, this declaration can be made on the customs declaration The documents referred to in Articles 18(3) and 22(3) used for the
CN22/CN23 or on a sheet of paper annexed to that document. purpose of proving that products covered by a movement certifi-
cate EUR.1 or an invoice declaration can be considered as prod-
ucts originating in the Community, in Algeria or in one of the
other countries referred to in Articles 4 and 5 and fulfil the other
2. Imports which are occasional and consist solely of products requirements of this Protocol may consist inter alia of the
for the personal use of the recipients or travellers or their families following:
shall not be considered as imports by way of trade if it is evident
from the nature and quantity of the products that no commercial
purpose is in view.
(a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter
or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for
example in his accounts or internal book-keeping;
3. Furthermore, the total value of these products shall not
exceed EUR 500 in the case of small packages or EUR 1 200 in
the case of products forming part of travellers’ personal luggage.
(b) documents proving the originating status of materials used,
issued or made out in the Community or in Algeria where
these documents are used in accordance with domestic law;
Article 28
Declaration by the supplier and information certificate
(c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in
the Community or in Algeria issued or made out in the Com-
munity or in Algeria, where these documents are used in
accordance with domestic law;
1. When a movement certificate EUR.1 is issued or an invoice
declaration is made out for originating products manufactured
using goods that have undergone working or processing in one
or more of the countries referred to in Article 5 without obtain-
ing originating status, account shall be taken of the supplier’s dec- (d) movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations proving
laration(s) regarding those goods in accordance with the the originating status of materials used, issued or made out
provisions of this Article. The supplier’s declaration, of a which a in the Community or in Algeria in accordance with this Pro-
specimen is given in Annex V, shall be supplied by the exporter tocol, or in one of the other countries referred to in Articles 4
in the State of export either on the commercial invoice for the and 5, in accordance with rules of origin which are identical
products or annexed thereto. to the rules in this Protocol;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/121
(e) supplier’s declarations and information certificates proving 2. A consignment shall benefit from the provisions of
the working or processing undergone by the materials used Articles 22(1)(b) or 27(3) by reference to the currency in which
in the manufacture of the goods concerned, made out in the the invoice is drawn up, according to the amount fixed by the
countries referred to in Article 4 in accordance with the pro- country concerned.
visions of this Protocol.
3. The amounts to be used in any given national currency shall
be the equivalent in that currency of the amounts expressed in
Article 30 euros as at the first working day of October. The amounts shall
be communicated to the Commission of the European Commu-
Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents nities by 15 October and shall apply from 1 January the follow-
ing year. The Commission of the European Communities shall
notify all countries concerned of the relevant amounts.
1. The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certifi-
cate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the documents
referred to in Article 18(3).
4. A country may round up or down the amount resulting
from the conversion into its national currency of an amount
2. The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall keep expressed in euros. The rounded-off amount may not differ from
for at least three years a copy of this invoice declaration as well as the amount resulting from the conversion by more than 5 %. A
the documents referred to in Article 22(3). country may retain unchanged its national currency equivalent of
an amount expressed in euros if, at the time of the annual adjust-
ment provided for in paragraph 3, the conversion of that amount,
prior to any rounding-off, results in an increase of less than 15 %
3. The customs authorities of the exporting country issuing a
in the national currency equivalent. The national currency equiva-
movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the
lent may be retained unchanged if the conversion would result in
application form referred to in Article 18(2).
a decrease in that equivalent value.
4. The customs authorities of the importing country shall keep
for at least three years the movement certificates EUR.1 and the
5. The amounts expressed in euros shall be reviewed by the
invoice declarations submitted to them.
Association Committee at the request of the Community or of
Algeria. When carrying out this review, the Association Commit-
tee shall consider the desirability of preserving the effects of the
limits concerned in real terms. For this purpose, it may decide to
Article 31
modify the amounts expressed in euros.
Discrepancies and formal errors
1. The discovery of slight discrepancies between the state-
ments made in the proof of origin and those made in the docu-
TITLE VI
ments submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying
out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto
ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION
render the proof of origin null and void if it is duly established
that this document does correspond to the products submitted.
Article 33
2. Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a proof of
origin should not cause this document to be rejected if these errors Mutual assistance
are not such as to create doubts concerning the correctness of the
statements made in this document.
1. The customs authorities of the Member States of the Com-
munity and of Algeria shall provide each other, through the Com-
mission of the European Communities, with specimen
Article 32 impressions of stamps used in their customs offices for the issue
of movement certificates EUR.1 and with the addresses of the cus-
Amounts expressed in euros
toms authorities responsible for verifying those certificates
and invoice declarations.
1. For the application of the provisions of Articles 22(1)(b)
and 27(3) in cases where products are invoiced in a currency
other than euros, amounts in the national currencies of the Mem- 2. In order to ensure the proper application of this Protocol,
ber States of the Community, of Algeria and of the other coun- the Community and Algeria shall assist each other, through the
tries referred to in Articles 4 and 5 equivalent to the amounts competent customs administrations, in checking the authenticity
expressed in euros shall be fixed annually by each of the coun- of the movement certificates EUR.1 or the invoice declarations
tries concerned. and the correctness of the information given in these documents.L 265/122 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 34 Article 35
Verification of proof of origin Dispute settlement
Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of
Article 34 which cannot be settled between the customs authori-
1. Subsequent verifications of proofs of origin shall be carried
ties requesting a verification and the customs authorities respon-
out at random or whenever the customs authorities of the import-
sible for carrying out this verification or where they raise a
ing country have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of such
question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be
documents, the originating status of the products concerned or
submitted to the Customs Cooperation Committee.
the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol.
In all cases the settlement of disputes between the importer and
the customs authorities of the importing country shall be under
2. For the purposes of implementing the provisions of para- the legislation of the said country.
graph 1, the customs authorities of the importing country shall
return the movement certificate EUR.1 and the invoice, if it has
been submitted, the invoice declaration, or a copy of these docu-
ments, to the customs authorities of the exporting country giv-
ing, where appropriate, the reasons for the enquiry. Any Article 36
documents and information obtained suggesting that the infor-
mation given on the proof of origin is incorrect shall be for- Penalties
warded in support of the request for verification.
Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes
to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect informa-
tion for the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for
3. The verification shall be carried out by the customs authori-
products.
ties of the exporting country. For this purpose, they shall have the
right to call for any evidence and to carry out any inspection of
the exporter’s accounts or any other check considered
appropriate.
Article 37
Free zones
4. If the customs authorities of the importing country decide
to suspend the granting of preferential treatment to the products
1. The Community and Algeria shall take all necessary steps to
concerned while awaiting the results of the verification, release of
ensure that products traded under cover of a proof of origin which
the products shall be offered to the importer subject to any pre-
in the course of transport use a free zone situated in their terri-
cautionary measures judged necessary.
tory, are not substituted by other goods and do not undergo han-
dling other than normal operations designed to prevent their
deterioration.
5. The customs authorities requesting the verification shall be
informed of the results of this verification as soon as possible. 2. By means of an exemption to the provisions contained in
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are paragraph 1, when products originating in the Community or in
authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered Algeria are imported into a free zone under cover of a proof of
as products originating in the Community, in Algeria or in one of origin and undergo treatment or processing, the authorities con-
the other countries referred to in Article 4 and fulfil the other cerned shall issue a new movement certificate EUR.1 at the
requirements of this Protocol. exporter’s request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in
conformity with the provisions of this Protocol.
6. If in cases of reasonable doubt there is no reply within ten
months of the date of the verification request or if the reply does
TITLE VII
not contain sufficient information to determine the authenticity
of the document in question or the real origin of the products, the
CEUTA AND MELILLA
requesting customs authorities shall, except in exceptional cir-
cumstances, refuse entitlement to the preferences.
Article 38
Application of the Protocol
7. The subsequent verification of information certificates pro-
vided for by Article 28 shall be carried out in the cases mentioned
in paragraph 1 and in accordance with the procedures laid down 1. The term ‘Community’ used in Article 2 does not cover
in paragraphs 2 to 6. Ceuta and Melilla.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/123
2. Products originating in Algeria, when imported into Ceuta 2. Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory.
or Melilla, shall enjoy in all respects the same customs regime as
that which is applied to products originating in the customs ter-
ritory of the Community under Protocol 2 of the Act of Acces- 3. The exporter or his authorised representative shall enter
sion of the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic to the ‘Algeria’ and ‘Ceuta and Melilla’ in Box 2 of movement certificates
European Communities. Algeria shall grant to imports of prod- EUR.1 or on invoice declarations. In addition, in the case of prod-
ucts covered by the Agreement and originating in Ceuta and ucts originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this shall be indicated in Box
Melilla the same customs regime as that which is granted to prod- 4 of movement certificates EUR.1 or on invoice declarations.
ucts imported from and originating in the Community.
4. The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the
3. For the purpose of the application of paragraph 2 concern- application of this Protocol in Ceuta and Melilla.
ing products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this Protocol shall
apply mutatis mutandis subject to the special conditions set out in
Article 39.
TITLE VIII
FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 39
Special conditions
Article 40
1. Providing they have been transported directly in accordance Amendments to the Protocol
with the provisions of Article 14, the following shall be consid-
ered as:
The Association Council may decide to amend the provisions of
this protocol at the request of one of the contracting parties or of
1) products originating in Ceuta and Melilla: the Customs Cooperation Committee.
(a) products wholly obtained in Ceuta and Melilla;
Article 41
(b) products obtained in Ceuta and Melilla in the manufac-
ture of which products other than those referred to in (a) Customs Cooperation Committee
are used, provided that:
1. A Customs Cooperation Committee shall be set up, charged
(i) the said products have undergone sufficient work-
with carrying out administrative cooperation with a view to the
ing or processing within the meaning of Article 7;
correct and uniform application of this Protocol and with carry-
ing out any other tasks in the customs field which may be
or that entrusted to it.
(ii) those products are originating in Algeria or in the 2. The Committee shall be composed, on the one hand, of
Community, provided that they have been submit- experts of the Member States and of officials of the Commission
ted to working or processing which goes beyond of the European Communities who are responsible for customs
the operations referred to in Article 8. questions and, on the other hand, of experts nominated by
Algeria.
2) products originating in Algeria:
(a) products wholly obtained in Algeria;
Article 42
(b) products obtained in Algeria in the manufacture of Implementation of the Protocol
which products other than those referred to in (a) are
used, provided that:
The Community and Algeria shall each take the steps necessary
to implement this Protocol.
(i) the said products have undergone sufficient work-
ing or processing within the meaning of Article 7;
Article 43
or that
Arrangements with Morocco and Tunisia
(ii) those products are originating, within the meaning
of this Protocol, in Ceuta and Melilla or in the Com- The Contracting Parties shall take any measures necessary for the
munity, provided that they have been submitted to conclusion of arrangements with Morocco and Tunisia enabling
working or processing which goes beyond the this Protocol to be applied. The Contracting Parties shall notify
operations referred to in Article 8(1). each other of measures taken to this affect.L 265/124 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Article 44 are in the Community or in Algeria in temporary storage, in
bonded warehouses or in free zones, subject to the submission to
Goods in transit or storage
the customs authorities of the importing State, within four
months of that date, of a certificate EUR.1 endorsed retrospec-
The provisions of the Agreement may be applied to goods which tively by the competent authorities of the exporting State together
comply with the provisions of this Protocol and which on the with the documents showing that the goods have been trans-
date of entry into force of the Agreement are either in transit or ported directly.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/125
PROTOCOL No 6: ANNEX I
INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX II
Note 1:
The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently worked or processed within the
meaning of Article 7 of the Protocol.
Note 2:
2.1. The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained. The first column gives the heading number or chapter
number used in the Harmonized System and the second column gives the description of goods used in that system for
that heading or chapter. For each entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in column 3 or 4. Where, in some
cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an ‘ex’, this signifies that the rules in column 3 or 4 apply only to the
part of that heading as described in column 2.
2.2. Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1 or a chapter number is given and the description of
products in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the adjacent rules in column 3 or 4 apply to all products
which, under the Harmonized System, are classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped
together in column 1.
2.3. Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, each indent contains the
description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent rules in column 3 or 4.
2.4. Where, for an entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in both columns 3 and 4, the exporter may opt, as an
alternative, to apply either the rule set out in column 3 or that set out in column 4. If no origin rule is given in column
4, the rule set out in column 3 is to be applied.
Note 3:
3.1. The provisions of Article 7 of the Protocol, concerning products having acquired originating status which are used in
the manufacture of other products, shall apply, regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory
where these products are used or in another factory in the Community or in Algeria.
Example:
An engine of heading 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be
incorporated may not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price, is made from ‘other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging’ of
heading ex 7224.
If this forging has been forged in the Community from a non-originating ingot, it has already acquired originating sta-
tus by virtue of the rule for heading ex 7224 in the list. The forging can then count as originating in the value-
calculation for the engine, regardless of whether it was produced in the same factory or in another factory in the
Community. The value of the non-originating ingot is thus not taken into account when adding up the value of the
non-originating materials used.
3.2. The rule in the list represents the minimum amount of working or processing required, and the carrying-out of more
working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the carrying-out of less working or processing can-
not confer originating status. Thus, if a rule provides that non-originating material, at a certain level of manufacture,
may be used, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed, and the use of such material at a
later stage is not.
3.3. Without prejudice to Note 3.2 where a rule states that ‘materials of any heading’ may be used, materials of the same
heading as the product may also be used, subject, however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in
the rule. However, the expression ‘manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading
No …’ means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of
the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used.
3.4. When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than one material, this means that one
or more materials may be used. It does not require that all be used.L 265/126 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Example:
The rule for fabrics of HS headings 5208 to 5212 provides that natural fibres may be used and that chemical materials,
among other materials, may also be used. This does not mean that both have to be used; it is possible to use one or the
other, or both.
3.5. Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obvi-
ously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule. (See
also Note 6.2 below in relation to textiles).
Example:
The rule for prepared foods of heading 1904, which specifically excludes the use of cereals and their derivatives, does
not prevent the use of mineral salts, chemicals and other additives which are not products from cereals.
However, this does not apply to products which, although they cannot be manufactured from the particular materials
specified in the list, can be produced from a material of the same nature at an earlier stage of manufacture.
Example:
In the case of an article of apparel of ex Chapter 62 made from non-woven materials, if the use of only non-originating
yarn is allowed for this class of article, it is not possible to start from non-woven cloth, even if non-woven cloths can-
not normally be made from yarn. In such cases, the starting material would normally be at the stage before yarn, that
is, the fibre stage.
3.6. Where, in a rule in the list, two percentages are given for the maximum value of non-originating materials that can be
used, then these percentages may not be added together. In other words, the maximum value of all the non-originating
materials used may never exceed the higher of the percentages given. Furthermore, the individual percentages must not
be exceeded, in relation to the particular materials to which they apply.
Note 4:
4.1. The term ‘natural fibres’ is used in the list to refer to fibres other than artificial or synthetic fibres. It is restricted to the
stages before spinning takes place, including waste, and, unless otherwise specified, includes fibres which have been
carded, combed or otherwise processed, but not spun.
4.2. The term ‘natural fibres’ includes horsehair of heading 0503, silk of headings 5002 and 5003, as well as wool-fibres
and fine or coarse animal hair of headings 5101 to 5105, cotton fibres of headings 5201 to 5203, and other vegetable
fibres of headings 5301 to 5305.
4.3. The terms ‘textile pulp’, ‘chemical materials’ and ‘paper-making materials’ are used in the list to describe the materials,
not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, which can be used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns.
4.4. The term ‘man-made staple fibres’ is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste,
of headings 5501 to 5507.
Note 5:
5.1. Where, for a given product in the list, reference is made to this Note, the conditions set out in column 3 shall not be
applied to any basic textile materials used in the manufacture of this product and which, taken together, represent 10 %
or less of the total weight of all the basic textile materials used (See also Notes 5.3 and 5.4 below).
5.2. However, the tolerance mentioned in Note 5.1 may be applied only to mixed products which have been made from
two or more basic textile materials.
The following are the basic textile materials:
— silk,
— wool,
— coarse animal hair,
— fine animal hair,
— horsehair,
— cotton,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/127
— paper-making materials and paper,
— flax,
— true hemp,
— jute and other textile bast fibres,
— sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave,
— coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres,
— synthetic man-made filaments,
— artificial man-made filaments,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyphenylene sulphide,
— synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyvinyl chloride,
— other synthetic man-made staple fibres,
— artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose,
— other artificial man-made staple fibres,
— yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether, whether or not gimped,
— yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester, whether or not gimped,
— products of heading 5605 (metallised yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core
of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by
means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film,
— other products of heading 5605.
Example:
A yarn, of heading 5205, made from cotton fibres of heading 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading 5506, is a
mixed yarn. Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres which do not satisfy the origin-rules (which require manu-
facture from chemical materials or textile pulp) may be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 10 % of
the weight of the yarn.
Example:
A woollen fabric, of heading 5112, made from woollen yarn of heading 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of
heading 5509, is a mixed fabric. Therefore, synthetic yarn which does not satisfy the origin-rules (which require manu-
facture from chemical materials or textile pulp), or woollen yarn which does not satisfy the origin-rules (which require
manufacture from natural fibres, not carded or combed or otherwise prepared for spinning), or a combination of the
two, may be used, provided that their total weight does not exceed 10 % of the weight of the fabric.
Example:
Tufted textile fabric, of heading 5802, made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and cotton fabric of heading 5210, is
a only mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric made from yarns classified in two separate headings,
or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures.L 265/128 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Example:
If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading 5205 and synthetic fabric of head-
ing 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is, accord-
ingly, a mixed product.
Example:
A carpet with tufts made from both artificial yarns and cotton yarns and with a jute backing is a mixed product because
three basic textile materials are used. Thus, any non-originating materials that are at a later stage of manufacture than
the rule allows may be used, provided their total weight does not exceed 10 % of the weight of the textile materials of
the carpet. Thus, both the jute backing and/or the artificial yarns could be imported at that stage of manufacture, pro-
vided the weight conditions are met.
5.3. In the case of products incorporating ‘yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether,
whether or not gimped’, this tolerance is 20 % in respect of this yarn.
5.4. In the case of products incorporating ‘strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether
or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent
or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film,’ this tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip.
Note 6:
6.1. Where, in the list, reference is made to this Note, textile materials (with the exception of linings and interlinings), which
do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made-up product concerned, may be used, provided that
they are classified in a heading other than that of the product and that their value does not exceed 8 % of the ex-works
price of the product.
6.2. Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials, which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63, may be used freely in the
manufacture of textile products, whether or not they contain textiles.
Example:
If a rule in the list provides that, for a particular textile item (such as trousers), yarn must be used, this does not prevent
the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63. For the same rea-
son, it does not prevent the use of slide-fasteners, even though slide-fasteners normally contain textiles.
6.3. Where a percentage-rule applies, the value of materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken
into account when calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated.
Note 7:
7.1. For the purposes of headings ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, the ‘specific processes’ are the
following:
(a) vacuum-distillation;
(b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation-process;
(c) cracking;
(d) reforming;
(e) extraction by means of selective solvents;
(f) the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sul-
phuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally-active earth,
activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite;
(g) polymerisation;
(h) alkylation;
(i) isomerisation.
7.2. For the purposes of headings 2710, 2711 and 2712, the ‘specific processes’ are the following:
(a) vacuum-distillation;
(b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation-process;
(c) cracking;10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/129
(d) reforming;
(e) extraction by means of selective solvents;
(f) the process comprising all of the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sul-
phuric anhydride; neutralisation with alkaline agents; decolourisation and purification with naturally-active earth,
activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite;
(g) polymerisation;
(h) alkylation;
(ij) isomerisation;
(k) in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, desulphurisation with hydrogen, resulting in a reduction of at
least 85 % of the sulphur-content of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method);
(l) in respect of products of heading 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than filtering;
(m) in respect of heavy oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen, at a pressure of more than 20 bar and
a temperature of more than 250 °C, with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurisation, when the
hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction. The further treatment, with hydrogen, of lubricat-
ing oils of heading ex 2710 (e.g. hydrofinishing or decolourisation), in order, more especially, to improve colour
or stability shall not, however, be deemed to be a specific process;
(n) in respect of fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, atmospheric distillation, on condition that less than 30 % of these
products distils, by volume, including losses, at 300 °C, by the ASTM D 86 method;
(o) in respect of heavy oils other than gas oils and fuel oils of heading ex 2710 only, treatment by means of a high-
frequency electrical brush-discharge;
(p) in respect of crude products (other than petroleum jelly, ozokerite, lignite wax or peat wax, paraffin wax contain-
ing by weight less than 0,75 % of oil) of heading ex 2712 only, de-oiling by fractional crystallisation.
7.3. For the purposes of headings ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, simple operations, such as clean-
ing, decanting, desalting, water-separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur-content as a result of mix-
ing products with different sulphur-contents, or any combination of these operations or like operations, do not confer
origin.L 265/130 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 6 ANNEX II
LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED OUT ON NON-ORIGINATING
MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE PRODUCT MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS
The products mentioned in the list may not be all covered by the Agreement. It is,
therefore, necessary to consult the other parts of the Agreement.
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
Chapter 1 Live animals All the animals of Chapter 1 shall be
wholly obtained
Chapter 2 Meat and edible meat offal Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapters 1 and 2 used are wholly
obtained
Chapter 3 Fish and crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic Manufacture in which all the materials of
invertebrates Chapter 3 used are wholly obtained
ex Chapter 4 Dairy produce; birds’ eggs; natural honey; edible Manufacture in which all the materials of
products of animal origin, not elsewhere Chapter 4 used are wholly obtained
specified or included; except for:
0403 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yoghurt, Manufacture in which:
kephir and other fermented or acidified milk
and cream, whether or not concentrated
— all the materials of Chapter 4 used
or containing added sugar or other sweetening
are wholly obtained,
matter or flavoured or containing added fruit,
nuts or cocoa
— all the fruit juice (except that of
pineapple, lime or grapefruit) of
heading 2009 used is originating,
and
— the value of all the materials of
Chapter 17 used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 5 Products of animal origin, not elsewhere speci- Manufacture in which all the materials of
fied or included; except for: Chapter 5 used are wholly obtained
ex 0502 Prepared pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair Cleaning, disinfecting, sorting and
straightening of bristles and hair
Chapter 6 Live trees and other plants; bulbs, roots and the Manufacture in which:
like; cut flowers and ornamental foliage
— all the materials of Chapter 6 used
are wholly obtained,
and
— the value of all the materials used
does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/131
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
Chapter 7 Edible vegetables and certain roots and tubers Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapter 7 used are wholly obtained
Chapter 8 Edible fruit and nuts; peel of citrus fruits or Manufacture in which:
melons
— all the fruit and nuts used are
wholly obtained,
and
— the value of all the materials of
Chapter 17 used does not exceed
30 % of the value of the ex-works
price of the product
ex Chapter 9 Coffee, tea, maté and spices; except for: Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapter 9 used are wholly obtained
0901 Coffee, whether or not roasted or decaffeinated; Manufacture from materials of any head-
coffee husks and skins; coffee substitutes con- ing
taining coffee in any proportion
0902 Tea, whether or not flavoured Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing
ex 0910 Mixtures of spices Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing
Chapter 10 Cereals Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapter 10 used are wholly obtained
ex Chapter 11 Products of the milling industry; malt; starches; Manufacture in which all the cereals,
inulin; wheat gluten; except for: edible vegetables, roots and tubers of
heading 0714 or fruit used are wholly
obtained
ex 1106 Flour, meal and powder of the dried, shelled Drying and milling of leguminous veg-
leguminous vegetables of heading 0713 etables of heading 0708
Chapter 12 Oil seeds and oleaginous fruits; miscellaneous Manufacture in which all the materials of
grains, seeds and fruit; industrial or medicinal Chapter 12 used are wholly obtained
plants; straw and fodder
1301 Lac; natural gums, resins, gum-resins and oleo- Manufacture in which the value of all the
resins (for example, balsams) materials of heading 1301 used does not
exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the
product
1302 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances,
pectinates and pectates; agar-agar and other
mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modi-
fied, derived from vegetable products:
– Mucilages and thickeners, modified, derived Manufacture from non-modified muci-
from vegetable products lages and thickeners
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 14 Vegetable plaiting materials; vegetable products Manufacture in which all the materials of
not elsewhere specified or included Chapter 14 used are wholly obtainedL 265/132 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 15 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their Manufacture from materials of any
cleavage products; prepared edible fats; animal heading, except that of the product
or vegetable waxes; except for:
1501 Pig fat (including lard) and poultry fat, other
than that of heading 0209 or 1503:
– Fats from bones or waste Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except those of heading 0203, 0206
or 0207 or bones of heading 0506
– Other Manufacture from meat or edible offal of
swine of heading 0203 or 0206 or of
meat and edible offal of poultry of head-
ing 0207
1502 Fats of bovine animals, sheep or goats, other
than those of heading 1503
– Fats from bones or waste Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except those of heading 0201, 0202,
0204 or 0206 or bones of heading 0506
– Other Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapter 2 used are wholly obtained
1504 Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish or
marine mammals, whether or not refined, but
not chemically modified:
– Solid fractions Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 1504
– Other Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapters 2 and 3 used are wholly
obtained
ex 1505 Refined lanolin Manufacture from crude wool grease of
heading 1505
1506 Other animal fats and oils and their fractions,
whether or not refined, but not chemically
modified:
– Solid fractions Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 1506
– Other Manufacture in which all the materials of
Chapter 2 used are wholly obtained
1507 to 1515 Vegetable oils and their fractions:
– Soya, ground nut, palm, copra, palm kernel, Manufacture from materials of any head-
babassu, tung and oiticica oil, myrtle wax ing, except that of the product
and Japan wax, fractions of jojoba oil and
oils for technical or industrial uses other than
the manufacture of foodstuffs for human
consumption
– Solid fractions, except for that of jojoba oil Manufacture from other materials of
headings 1507 to 151510.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/133
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Other Manufacture in which all the vegetable
materials used are wholly obtained
1516 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their frac- Manufacture in which:
tions, partly or wholly hydrogenated, inter-
esterified, re-esterified or elaidinised, whether or
— all the materials of Chapter 2 used
not refined, but not further prepared
are wholly obtained,
and
— all the vegetable materials used are
wholly obtained. However, materi-
als of headings 1507, 1508, 1511
and 1513 may be used
1517 Margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of Manufacture in which:
animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of
different fats or oils of this Chapter, other than
— all the materials of Chapters 2 and 4
edible fats or oils or their fractions of head-
used are wholly obtained,
ing 1516
and
— all the vegetable materials used are
wholly obtained. However, materi-
als of headings 1507, 1508, 1511
and 1513 may be used
Chapter 16 Preparations of meat, of fish or of crustaceans, Manufacture:
molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates
— from animals of Chapter 1,
and/or
— in which all the materials of Chap-
ter 3 used are wholly obtained
ex Chapter 17 Sugars and sugar confectionery; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
ex 1701 Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose, Manufacture in which the value of all the
in solid form, containing added flavouring materials of Chapter 17 used does not
or colouring matter exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
1702 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose,
maltose, glucose and fructose, in solid form;
sugar syrups not containing added flavouring
or colouring matter; artificial honey, whether or
not mixed with natural honey; caramel:
– Chemically-pure maltose and fructose Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 1702
– Other sugars in solid form, containing added Manufacture in which the value of all the
flavouring or colouring matter materials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
– Other Manufacture in which all the materials
used are originatingL 265/134 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 1703 Molasses resulting from the extraction or Manufacture in which the value of all the
refining of sugar, containing added flavouring materials of Chapter 17 used does not
or colouring matter exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
1704 Sugar confectionery (including white Manufacture:
chocolate), not containing cocoa
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
Chapter 18 Cocoa and cocoa preparations Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
1901 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, groats,
meal, starch or malt extract, not containing
cocoa or containing less than 40 % by weight of
cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not
elsewhere specified or included; food prepara-
tions of goods of headings 0401 to 0404, not
containing cocoa or containing less than 5 % by
weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted
basis, not elsewhere specified or included:
– Malt extract Manufacture from cereals of Chapter 10
– Other Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with
meat or other substances) or otherwise pre-
pared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles,
lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; couscous,
whether or not prepared:
– Containing 20 % or less by weight of meat, Manufacture in which all the cereals and
meat offal, fish, crustaceans or molluscs derivatives (except durum wheat and its
derivatives) used are wholly obtained10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/135
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Containing more than 20 % by weight of Manufacture in which:
meat, meat offal, fish, crustaceans or mol-
luscs
— all the cereals and their derivatives
(except durum wheat and its deriva-
tives) used are wholly obtained,
and
— all the materials of Chapters 2 and 3
used are wholly obtained
1903 Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from Manufacture from materials of any head-
starch, in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, sift- ing, except potato starch of head-
ings or similar forms ing 1108
1904 Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or Manufacture:
roasting of cereals or cereal products (for
example, corn flakes); cereals (other than maize
— from materials of any heading,
(corn)) in grain form or in the form of flakes or
except those of heading 1806,
other worked grains (except flour, groats
and meal), pre-cooked or otherwise prepared,
— in which all the cereals and flour
not elsewhere specified or included
(except durum wheat and Zea indu-
rata maize, and their derivatives)
used are wholly obtained,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ Manufacture from materials of any head-
wares, whether or not containing cocoa; com- ing, except those of Chapter 11
munion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable
for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice
paper and similar products
ex Chapter 20 Preparations of vegetables, fruit, nuts or other Manufacture in which all the fruit, nuts
parts of plants; except for: or vegetables used are wholly obtained
ex 2001 Yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of Manufacture from materials of any head-
plants containing 5 % or more by weight of ing, except that of the product
starch, prepared or preserved by vinegar or ace-
tic acid
ex 2004 and Potatoes in the form of flour, meal or flakes, Manufacture from materials of any head-
ex 2005 prepared or preserved otherwise than by vin- ing, except that of the product
egar or acetic acid
2006 Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts Manufacture in which the value of all the
of plants, preserved by sugar (drained, glacé materials of Chapter 17 used does not
or crystallized) exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the
productL 265/136 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
2007 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut purée Manufacture:
and fruit or nut pastes, obtained by cooking,
whether or not containing added sugar or other
— from materials of any heading,
sweetening matter
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex 2008 – Nuts, not containing added sugar or spirits Manufacture in which the value of all the
originating nuts and oil seeds of head-
ings 0801, 0802 and 1202 to 1207 used
exceeds 60 % of the ex-works price of
the product
– Peanut butter; mixtures based on cereals; Manufacture from materials of any head-
palm hearts; maize (corn) ing, except that of the product
– Other except for fruit and nuts cooked oth- Manufacture:
erwise than by steaming or boiling in water,
not containing added sugar, frozen
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
2009 Fruit juices (including grape must) and vegetable Manufacture:
juices, unfermented and not containing added
spirit, whether or not containing added sugar or
— from materials of any heading,
other sweetening matter
except that of the product, and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 21 Miscellaneous edible preparations; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
2101 Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee, Manufacture:
tea or maté and preparations with a basis of
these products or with a basis of coffee, tea or
— from materials of any heading,
maté; roasted chicory and other roasted coffee
except that of the product,
substitutes, and extracts, essences and concen-
trates thereof
and
— in which all the chicory used is
wholly obtained10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/137
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
2103 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed
condiments and mixed seasonings; mustard
flour and meal and prepared mustard:
– Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed Manufacture from materials of any head-
condiments and mixed seasonings ing, except that of the product. However,
mustard flour or meal or prepared mus-
tard may be used
– Mustard flour and meal and prepared mus- Manufacture from materials of any head-
tard ing
ex 2104 Soups and broths and preparations therefor Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except prepared or preserved veg-
etables of headings 2002 to 2005
2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified Manufacture:
or included
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 22 Beverages, spirits and vinegar; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which all the grapes or materials
derived from grapes used are
wholly obtained
2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated Manufacture:
waters, containing added sugar or other sweet-
ening matter or flavoured, and other non-
— from materials of any heading,
alcoholic beverages, not including fruit
except that of the product,
or vegetable juices of heading 2009
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials of Chapter 17 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price
of the product,
and
— in which all the fruit juice used
(except that of pineapple, lime
or grapefruit) is originatingL 265/138 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
2207 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic Manufacture:
strength by volume of 80 % vol or higher; ethyl
alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any
— from materials of any heading,
strength
except heading 2207 or 2208,
and
— in which all the grapes or materials
derived from grapes used are
wholly obtained or, if all the other
materials used are already originat-
ing, arrack may be used up to a
limit of 5 % by volume
2208 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic Manufacture:
strength by volume of less than 80 % vol; spir-
its, liqueurs and other spirituous beverages
— from materials of any heading,
except heading 2207 or 2208,
and
— in which all the grapes or materials
derived from grapes used are
wholly obtained or, if all the other
materials used are already originat-
ing, arrack may be used up to a
limit of 5 % by volume
ex Chapter 23 Residues and waste from the food industries; Manufacture from materials of any head-
prepared animal fodder; except for: ing, except that of the product
ex 2301 Whale meal; flours, meals and pellets of fish or Manufacture in which all the materials of
of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic inver- Chapters 2 and 3 used are wholly
tebrates, unfit for human consumption obtained
ex 2303 Residues from the manufacture of starch from Manufacture in which all the maize used
maize (excluding concentrated steeping liquors), is wholly obtained
of a protein content, calculated on the dry
product, exceeding 40 % by weight
ex 2306 Oil cake and other solid residues resulting from Manufacture in which all the olives used
the extraction of olive oil, containing more than are wholly obtained
3 % of olive oil
2309 Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding Manufacture in which:
— all the cereals, sugar or molasses,
meat or milk used are originating,
and
— all the materials of Chapter 3 used
are wholly obtained10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/139
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 24 Tobacco and manufactured tobacco substitutes; Manufacture in which all the materials of
except for: Chapter 24 used are wholly obtained
2402 Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, of Manufacture in which at least 70 % by
tobacco or of tobacco substitutes weight of the unmanufactured tobacco
or tobacco refuse of heading 2401 used
is originating
ex 2403 Smoking tobacco Manufacture in which at least 70 % by
weight of the unmanufactured tobacco
or tobacco refuse of heading 2401 used
is originating
ex Chapter 25 Salt; sulphur; earths and stone; plastering Manufacture from materials of any
materials, lime and cement; except for: heading, except that of the product
ex 2504 Natural crystalline graphite, with enriched Enriching of the carbon content,
carbon content, purified and ground purifying and grinding of crude
crystalline graphite
ex 2515 Marble, merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into Cutting, by sawing or otherwise, of
blocks or slabs of a rectangular (including marble (even if already sawn) of a
square) shape, of a thickness not exceeding thickness exceeding 25 cm
25 cm
ex 2516 Granite, porphyry, basalt, sandstone and other Cutting, by sawing or otherwise, of stone
monumental or building stone, merely cut, by (even if already sawn) of a thickness
sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a exceeding 25 cm
rectangular (including square) shape, of a
thickness not exceeding 25 cm
ex 2518 Calcined dolomite Calcination of dolomite not calcined
ex 2519 Crushed natural magnesium carbonate Manufacture from materials of any
(magnesite), in hermetically-sealed containers, heading, except that of the product.
and magnesium oxide, whether or not pure, However, natural magnesium carbonate
other than fused magnesia or dead-burned (magnesite) may be used
(sintered) magnesia
ex 2520 Plasters specially prepared for dentistry Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 2524 Natural asbestos fibres Manufacture from asbestos concentrate
ex 2525 Mica powder Grinding of mica or mica waste
ex 2530 Earth colours, calcined or powdered Calcination or grinding of earth colours
Chapter 26 Ores, slag and ash Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the productL 265/140 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 27 Mineral fuels, mineral oils and products of their Manufacture from materials of any
distillation; bituminous substances; mineral heading, except that of the product
waxes; except for:
ex 2707 Oils in which the weight of the aromatic Operations of refining and/or one or
constituents exceeds that of the non-aromatic more specific process(es) (1)
constituents, being oils similar to mineral oils
obtained by distillation of high temperature coal
or
tar, of which more than 65 % by volume distils
at a temperature of up to 250 °C (including
Other operations in which all the mate-
mixtures of petroleum spirit and benzole), for
rials used are classified within a heading
use as power or heating fuels
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 2709 Crude oils obtained from bituminous minerals Destructive distillation of bituminous
materials
2710 Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bitumi- Operations of refining and/or one or
nous materials, other than crude; preparations more specific process(es) (2)
not elsewhere specified or included, containing
by weight 70 % or more of petroleum oils or of
or
oils obtained from bituminous materials, these
oils being the basic constituents of the prepara-
Other operations in which all the mate-
tions; waste oils
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
2711 Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocar- Operations of refining and/or one or
bons more specific process(es) (2)
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
2712 Petroleum jelly; paraffin wax, microcrystalline Operations of refining and/or one or
petroleum wax, slack wax, ozokerite, lignite more specific process(es) (2)
wax, peat wax, other mineral waxes, and simi-
lar products obtained by synthesis or by other
or
processes, whether or not coloured
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/141
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
2713 Petroleum coke, petroleum bitumen and other Operations of refining and/or one or
residues of petroleum oils or of oils obtained more specific process(es) (1)
from bituminous materials
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
2714 Bitumen and asphalt, natural; bituminous or oil Operations of refining and/or one or
shale and tar sands; asphaltites and asphaltic more specific process(es) (1)
rocks
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
2715 Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, Operations of refining and/or one or
on natural bitumen, on petroleum bitumen, on more specific process(es) (1)
mineral tar or on mineral tar pitch (for example,
bituminous mastics, cut-backs)
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 28 Inorganic chemicals; organic or inorganic com- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
pounds of precious metals, of rare-earth metals, ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
of radioactive elements or of isotopes; except materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
for: product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 2805 ‘Mischmetall’ Manufacture by electrolytic or thermal
treatment in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 2811 Sulphur trioxide Manufacture from sulphur dioxide Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 2833 Aluminium sulphate Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the productL 265/142 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 2840 Sodium perborate Manufacture from disodium tetraborate Manufacture in which the value of all
pentahydrate the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 29 Organic chemicals; except for: Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
heading, except that of the product. the materials used does not exceed
However, materials of the same heading 40 % of the ex-works price of the
as the product may be used, provided product
that their total value does not exceed
20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 2901 Acyclic hydrocarbons for use as power or Operations of refining and/or one or
heating fuels more specific process(es) (1)
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 2902 Cyclanes and cyclenes (other than azulenes), Operations of refining and/or one or
benzene, toluene, xylenes, for use as power or more specific process(es) (1)
heating fuels
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 2905 Metal alcoholates of alcohols of this heading Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
and of ethanol ing, including other materials of head- the materials used does not exceed
ing 2905. However, metal alcoholates of 40 % of the ex-works price of the
this heading may be used, provided that product
their total value does not exceed 20 % of
the ex-works price of the product
2915 Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids and Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxy- ing. However, the value of all the mate- the materials used does not exceed
acids; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated rials of headings 2915 and 2916 used 40 % of the ex-works price of the
or nitrosated derivatives shall not exceed 20 % of the ex-works product
price of the product
ex 2932 – Internal ethers and their halogenated, sul- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
phonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives ing. However, the value of all the mate- the materials used does not exceed
rials of heading 2909 used shall not 40 % of the ex-works price of the
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the product
product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/143
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Cyclic acetals and internal hemiacetals and Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or ing the materials used does not exceed
nitrosated derivatives 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
2933 Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
atom(s) only ing. However, the value of all the mate- the materials used does not exceed
rials of headings 2932 and 2933 used 40 % of the ex-works price of the
shall not exceed 20 % of the ex-works product
price of the product
2934 Nucleic acids and their salts, whether or not Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
chemically defined; other heterocyclic com- ing. However, the value of all the mate- the materials used does not exceed
pounds rials of headings 2932, 2933 and 2934 40 % of the ex-works price of the
used shall not exceed 20 % of the product
ex-works price of the product
ex 2939 Concentrates of poppy straw containing not less Manufacture in which the value of all the
than 50 % by weight of alkaloids materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 30 Pharmaceutical products; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
3002 Human blood; animal blood prepared for thera-
peutic, prophylactic or diagnostic uses; antisera
and other blood fractions and modified immu-
nological products, whether or not obtained by
means of biotechnological processes; vaccines,
toxins, cultures of microorganisms (excluding
yeasts) and similar products:
– Products consisting of two or more constitu- Manufacture from materials of any head-
ents which have been mixed together for ing, including other materials of head-
therapeutic or prophylactic uses or unmixed ing 3002. However, materials of the
products for these uses, put up in measured same description as the product may be
doses or in forms or packings for retail sale used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the product
– Other
– – Human blood Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 3002. However, materials of the
same description as the product may be
used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the product
– – Animal blood prepared for therapeutic or Manufacture from materials of any head-
prophylactic uses ing, including other materials of head-
ing 3002. However, materials of the
same description as the product may be
used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the productL 265/144 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– – Blood fractions other than antisera, hae- Manufacture from materials of any head-
moglobin, blood globulins and serum ing, including other materials of head-
globulins ing 3002. However, materials of the
same description as the product may be
used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the product
– – Haemoglobin, blood globulins and serum Manufacture from materials of any head-
globulins ing, including other materials of head-
ing 3002. However, materials of the
same description as the product may be
used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the product
– – Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 3002. However, materials of the
same description as the product may be
used, provided that their total value does
not exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of
the product
3003 and Medicaments (excluding goods of head-
3004 ing 3002, 3005 or 3006):
– Obtained from amikacin of heading 2941 Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
materials of headings 3003 and 3004
may be used, provided that their total
value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product. How-
ever, materials of headings 3003
and 3004 may be used, provided
that their total value does not
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price
of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 3006 Waste pharmaceuticals specified in note 4(k) to The origin of the product in its original
this chapter classification shall be retained
ex Chapter 31 Fertilisers; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/145
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 3105 Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing two or Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
three of the fertilizing elements nitrogen, phos- the materials used does not exceed
phorous and potassium; other fertilisers; goods 40 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
of this chapter, in tablets or similar forms or in product
except that of the product. How-
packages of a gross weight not exceeding 10 kg,
ever, materials of the same heading
except for:
as the product may be used, pro-
vided that their total value does not
— sodium nitrate exceed 20 % of the ex-works price
of the product,
— calcium cyanamide
and
— potassium sulphate
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
— magnesium potassium sulphate
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 32 Tanning or dyeing extracts; tannins and their Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
derivatives; dyes, pigments and other colouring ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
matter; paints and varnishes; putty and other materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
mastics; inks; except for: product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 3201 Tannins and their salts, ethers, esters and other Manufacture from tanning extracts of Manufacture in which the value of all
derivatives vegetable origin the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
3205 Colour lakes; preparations as specified in note 3 Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
to this chapter based on colour lakes (3) ing, except headings 3203, 3204 the materials used does not exceed
and 3205. However, materials of head- 40 % of the ex-works price of the
ing 3205 may be used, provided that product
their total value does not exceed 20 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 33 Essential oils and resinoids; perfumery, cosmetic Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
or toilet preparations; except for: ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
3301 Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including con- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
cretes and absolutes; resinoids; extracted oleo- ing, including materials of a different the materials used does not exceed
resins; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in ‘group’ (4) in this heading. However, 40 % of the ex-works price of the
fixed oils, in waxes or the like, obtained by materials of the same group as the product
enfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products product may be used, provided that their
of the deterpenation of essential oils; aqueous total value does not exceed 20 % of the
distillates and aqueous solutions of essential oils ex-works price of the productL 265/146 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 34 Soap, organic surface-active agents, washing Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
preparations, lubricating preparations, artificial heading, except that of the product. the materials used does not exceed
waxes, prepared waxes, polishing or scouring However, materials of the same heading 40 % of the ex-works price of the
preparations, candles and similar articles, as the product may be used, provided product
modelling pastes, ‘dental waxes’ and dental that their total value does not exceed
preparations with a basis of plaster; except for: 20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3403 Lubricating preparations containing less than Operations of refining and/or one or
70 % by weight of petroleum oils or oils more specific process(es) (1)
obtained from bituminous minerals
or
Other operations in which all the mate-
rials used are classified within a heading
other than that of the product. However,
materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
3404 Artificial waxes and prepared waxes:
– With a basis of paraffin, petroleum waxes, Manufacture from materials of any head-
waxes obtained from bituminous minerals, ing, except that of the product. However,
slack wax or scale wax materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except: the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
— hydrogenated oils having the char-
acter of waxes of heading 1516,
— fatty acids not chemically defined
or industrial fatty alcohols having
the character of waxes of head-
ing 3823, and
— materials of heading 3404
However, these materials may be used,
provided that their total value does not
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 35 Albuminoidal substances; modified starches; Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
glues; enzymes; except for: ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/147
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
3505 Dextrins and other modified starches (for
example, pregelatinised or esterified starches);
glues based on starches, or on dextrins or other
modified starches:
– Starch ethers and esters Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, including other materials of head- the materials used does not exceed
ing 3505 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except those of heading 1108 the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3507 Prepared enzymes not elsewhere specified Manufacture in which the value of all the
or included materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 36 Explosives; pyrotechnic products; matches; Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
pyrophoric alloys; certain combustible prepara- ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
tions materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 37 Photographic or cinematographic goods; except Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
for: ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product may be used, provided that their product
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product
3701 Photographic plates and film in the flat, sensi-
tised, unexposed, of any material other than
paper, paperboard or textiles; instant print film
in the flat, sensitised, unexposed, whether or not
in packs:
– Instant print film for colour photography, in Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
packs ing, except those of headings 3701 the materials used does not exceed
and 3702. However, materials of head- 40 % of the ex-works price of the
ing 3702 may be used, provided that product
their total value does not exceed 30 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except those of headings 3701 the materials used does not exceed
and 3702. However, materials of head- 40 % of the ex-works price of the
ings 3701 and 3702 may be used, pro- product
vided that their total value does not
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
3702 Photographic film in rolls, sensitised, unex- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
posed, of any material other than paper, paper- ing, except those of headings 3701 the materials used does not exceed
board or textiles; instant print film in rolls, and 3702 40 % of the ex-works price of the
sensitised, unexposed productL 265/148 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
3704 Photographic plates, film paper, paperboard and Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
textiles, exposed but not developed heading, except those of headings 3701 the materials used does not exceed
to 3704 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 38 Miscellaneous chemical products; except for: Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
heading, except that of the product. the materials used does not exceed
However, materials of the same heading 40 % of the ex-works price of the
as the product may be used, provided product
that their total value does not exceed
20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3801 – Colloidal graphite in suspension in oil and Manufacture in which the value of all the
semi-colloidal graphite; carbonaceous pastes materials used does not exceed 50 % of
for electrodes the ex-works price of the product
– Graphite in paste form, being a mixture of Manufacture in which the value of all the Manufacture in which the value of all
more than 30 % by weight of graphite with materials of heading 3403 used does not the materials used does not exceed
mineral oils exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product product
ex 3803 Refined tall oil Refining of crude tall oil Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3805 Spirits of sulphate turpentine, purified Purification by distillation or refining of Manufacture in which the value of all
raw spirits of sulphate turpentine the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3806 Ester gums Manufacture from resin acids Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 3807 Wood pitch (wood tar pitch) Distillation of wood tar Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
3808 Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides, Manufacture in which the value of all the
anti-sprouting products and plant-growth regu- materials used does not exceed 50 % of
lators, disinfectants and similar products, put up the ex-works price of the products
in forms or packings for retail sale or as prepa-
rations or articles (for example, sulphur-treated
bands, wicks and candles, and fly-papers)
3809 Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the Manufacture in which the value of all the
dyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and other products materials used does not exceed 50 % of
and preparations (for example, dressings the ex-works price of the products
and mordants), of a kind used in the textile,
paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere
specified or included10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/149
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
3810 Pickling preparations for metal surfaces; fluxes Manufacture in which the value of all the
and other auxiliary preparations for soldering, materials used does not exceed 50 % of
brazing or welding; soldering, brazing or the ex-works price of the products
welding powders and pastes consisting of metal
and other materials; preparations of a kind used
as cores or coatings for welding electrodes or
rods
3811 Anti-knock preparations, oxidation inhibitors,
gum inhibitors, viscosity improvers,
anti-corrosive preparations and other prepared
additives, for mineral oils (including gasoline) or
for other liquids used for the same purposes as
mineral oils:
– Prepared additives for lubricating oil, con- Manufacture in which the value of all the
taining petroleum oils or oils obtained from materials of heading 3811 used does not
bituminous minerals exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the
product
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
3812 Prepared rubber accelerators; compound plasti- Manufacture in which the value of all the
cisers for rubber or plastics, not elsewhere speci- materials used does not exceed 50 % of
fied or included; anti-oxidizing preparations and the ex-works price of the product
other compound stabilisers for rubber or plas-
tics
3813 Preparations and charges for fire-extinguishers; Manufacture in which the value of all the
charged fire-extinguishing grenades materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
3814 Organic composite solvents and thinners, not Manufacture in which the value of all the
elsewhere specified or included; prepared paint materials used does not exceed 50 % of
or varnish removers the ex-works price of the product
3818 Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, Manufacture in which the value of all the
in the form of discs, wafers or similar forms; materials used does not exceed 50 % of
chemical compounds doped for use in electron- the ex-works price of the product
ics
3819 Hydraulic brake fluids and other prepared liq- Manufacture in which the value of all the
uids for hydraulic transmission, not containing materials used does not exceed 50 % of
or containing less than 70 % by weight of petro- the ex-works price of the product
leum oils or oils obtained from bituminous min-
erals
3820 Anti-freezing preparations and prepared Manufacture in which the value of all the
de-icing fluids materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
3822 Diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing, Manufacture in which the value of all the
prepared diagnostic or laboratory reagents materials used does not exceed 50 % of
whether or not on a backing, other than those the ex-works price of the product
of heading 3002 or 3006; certified reference
materialsL 265/150 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
3823 Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils
from refining; industrial fatty alcohols:
– Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids, acid Manufacture from materials of any head-
oils from refining ing, except that of the product
– Industrial fatty alcohols Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, including other materials of head-
ing 3823
3824 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores;
chemical products and preparations of the
chemical or allied industries (including those
consisting of mixtures of natural products), not
elsewhere specified or included:
– The following of this heading: Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except that of the product. However, the materials used does not exceed
materials of the same heading as the 40 % of the ex-works price of the
– – Prepared binders for foundry moulds
product may be used, provided that their product
or cores based on natural resinous prod-
total value does not exceed 20 % of the
ucts
ex-works price of the product
– – Naphthenic acids, their water-insoluble
salts and their esters
– – Sorbitol other than that of heading 2905
– – Petroleum sulphonates, excluding petro-
leum sulphonates of alkali metals, of
ammonium or of ethanolamines;
thiophenated sulphonic acids of oils
obtained from bituminous minerals, and
their salts
– – Ion exchangers
– – Getters for vacuum tubes
– – Alkaline iron oxide for the purification of
gas
– – Ammoniacal gas liquors and spent oxide
produced in coal gas purification
– – Sulphonaphthenic acids, their water-
insoluble salts and their esters
– – Fusel oil and Dippel’s oil
– – Mixtures of salts having different anions
– – Copying pastes with a basis of gelatin,
whether or not on a paper or textile back-
ing
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/151
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
3901 to 3915 Plastics in primary forms, waste, parings and
scrap, of plastic; except for headings ex 3907
and 3912 for which the rules are set out below:
– Addition homopolymerisation products in Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
which a single monomer contributes more the materials used does not exceed
than 99 % by weight to the total polymer 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
content product
does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of Chapter 39 used
does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product (5)
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the Manufacture in which the value of all
materials of Chapter 39 used does not the materials used does not exceed
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the 25 % of the ex-works price of the
product (5) product
ex 3907 – Copolymer, made from polycarbonate and Manufacture from materials of any head-
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene copolymer ing, except that of the product. However,
(ABS) materials of the same heading as the
product may be used, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product (5)
– Polyester Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials of Chapter 39 used does not
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the
product and/or manufacture from poly-
carbonate of tetrabromo-(bisphenol A)
3912 Cellulose and its chemical derivatives, not else- Manufacture in which the value of all the
where specified or included, in primary forms materials of the same heading as the
product used does not exceed 20 % of
the ex-works price of the product
3916 to 3921 Semi-manufactures and articles of plastics;
except for headings ex 3916, ex 3917, ex 3920
and ex 3921, for which the rules are set out
below:
– Flat products, further worked than only Manufacture in which the value of all the Manufacture in which the value of all
surface-worked or cut into forms other than materials of Chapter 39 used does not the materials used does not exceed
rectangular (including square); other prod- exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the 25 % of the ex-works price of the
ucts, further worked than only surface- product product
worked
– Other:
– – Addition homopolymerisation products Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
in which a single monomer contributes the materials used does not exceed
more than 99 % by weight to the total 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
polymer content product
does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of Chapter 39 used
does not exceed 20 % of the
ex-works price of the product (5)L 265/152 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– – Other Manufacture in which the value of all the Manufacture in which the value of all
materials of Chapter 39 used does not the materials used does not exceed
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price of the 25 % of the ex-works price of the
product (5) product
ex 3916 and Profile shapes and tubes Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
ex 3917 the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of the same head-
ing as the product used does not
exceed 20 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex 3920 – Ionomer sheet or film Manufacture from a thermoplastic par- Manufacture in which the value of all
tial salt which is a copolymer of ethylene the materials used does not exceed
and metacrylic acid partly neutralised 25 % of the ex-works price of the
with metal ions, mainly zinc and sodium product
– Sheets of regenerated cellulose, polyamides Manufacture in which the value of all the
or polyethylene materials of the same heading as the
product used does not exceed 20 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 3921 Foils of plastic, metallised Manufacture from highly-transparent Manufacture in which the value of all
polyester-foils with a thickness of less the materials used does not exceed
than 23 micron (6) 25 % of the ex-works price of the
product
3922 to 3926 Articles of plastics Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 40 Rubber and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
ex 4001 Laminated slabs of crepe rubber for shoes Lamination of sheets of natural rubber
4005 Compounded rubber, unvulcanised, in primary Manufacture in which the value of all the
forms or in plates, sheets or strip materials used, except natural rubber,
does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works
price of the product
4012 Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber;
solid or cushion tyres, tyre treads and tyre flaps,
of rubber:
– Retreaded pneumatic, solid or cushion tyres, Retreading of used tyres
of rubber
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except those of headings 4011
and 4012
ex 4017 Articles of hard rubber Manufacture from hard rubber10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/153
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 41 Raw hides and skins (other than furskins) and Manufacture from materials of any
leather; except for: heading, except that of the product
ex 4102 Raw skins of sheep or lambs, without wool on Removal of wool from sheep or lamb
skins, with wool on
4104 to 4106 Tanned or crust hides and skins, without wool Retanning of pre-tanned leather
or hair on, whether or not split, but not further
prepared
or
Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
4107, 4112 Leather further prepared after tanning or crust- Manufacture from materials of any head-
and 4113 ing, including parchment-dressed leather, with- ing, except headings 4104 to 4113
out wool or hair on, whether or not split, other
than leather of heading 4114
ex 4114 Patent leather and patent laminated leather; Manufacture from materials of head-
metallised leather ings 4104 to 4106, provided that their
total value does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
Chapter 42 Articles of leather; saddlery and harness; travel Manufacture from materials of any head-
goods, handbags and similar containers; articles ing, except that of the product
of animal gut (other than silk worm gut)
ex Chapter 43 Furskins and artificial fur; manufactures thereof; Manufacture from materials of any head-
except for: ing, except that of the product
ex 4302 Tanned or dressed furskins, assembled:
– Plates, crosses and similar forms Bleaching or dyeing, in addition to cut-
ting and assembly of non-assembled
tanned or dressed furskins
– Other Manufacture from non-assembled,
tanned or dressed furskins
4303 Articles of apparel, clothing accessories and Manufacture from non-assembled
other articles of furskin tanned or dressed furskins of head-
ing 4302
ex Chapter 44 Wood and articles of wood; wood charcoal; Manufacture from materials of any head-
except for: ing, except that of the product
ex 4403 Wood roughly squared Manufacture from wood in the rough,
whether or not stripped of its bark or
merely roughed down
ex 4407 Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or Planing, sanding or end-jointing
peeled, of a thickness exceeding 6 mm, planed,
sanded or end-jointed
ex 4408 Sheets for veneering (including those obtained Splicing, planing, sanding or end-
by slicing laminated wood) and for plywood, of jointing
a thickness not exceeding 6 mm, spliced, and
other wood sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled of
a thickness not exceeding 6 mm, planed, sanded
or end-jointed
ex 4409 Wood continuously shaped along any of its
edges, ends or faces, whether or not planed,
sanded or end-jointed:
– Sanded or end-jointed Sanding or end-jointingL 265/154 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Beadings and mouldings Beading or moulding
ex 4410 to Beadings and mouldings, including moulded Beading or moulding
ex 4413 skirting and other moulded boards
ex 4415 Packing cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar Manufacture from boards not cut to size
packings, of wood
ex 4416 Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other coopers’ Manufacture from riven staves, not fur-
products and parts thereof, of wood ther worked than sawn on the two prin-
cipal surfaces
ex 4418 – Builders’ joinery and carpentry of wood Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
cellular wood panels, shingles and
shakes may be used
– Beadings and mouldings Beading or moulding
ex 4421 Match splints; wooden pegs or pins for foot- Manufacture from wood of any heading,
wear except drawn wood of heading 4409
ex Chapter 45 Cork and articles of cork; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
4503 Articles of natural cork Manufacture from cork of heading 4501
Chapter 46 Manufactures of straw, of esparto or of other Manufacture from materials of any head-
plaiting materials; basketware and wickerwork ing, except that of the product
Chapter 47 Pulp of wood or of other fibrous cellulosic Manufacture from materials of any head-
material; recovered (waste and scrap) paper or ing, except that of the product
paperboard
ex Chapter 48 Paper and paperboard; articles of paper pulp, of Manufacture from materials of any head-
paper or of paperboard; except for: ing, except that of the product
ex 4811 Paper and paperboard, ruled, lined or squared Manufacture from paper-making materi-
only als of Chapter 47
4816 Carbon paper, self-copy paper and other copy- Manufacture from paper-making materi-
ing or transfer papers (other than those of head- als of Chapter 47
ing 4809), duplicator stencils and offset plates,
of paper, whether or not put up in boxes
4817 Envelopes, letter cards, plain postcards and cor- Manufacture:
respondence cards, of paper or paperboard;
boxes, pouches, wallets and writing compendi-
— from materials of any heading,
ums, of paper or paperboard, containing an
except that of the product,
assortment of paper stationery
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/155
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 4818 Toilet paper Manufacture from paper-making
materials of Chapter 47
ex 4819 Cartons, boxes, cases, bags and other packing Manufacture:
containers, of paper, paperboard, cellulose
wadding or webs of cellulose fibres
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 4820 Letter pads Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 4823 Other paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and Manufacture from paper-making materi-
webs of cellulose fibres, cut to size or shape als of Chapter 47
ex Chapter 49 Printed books, newspapers, pictures and other Manufacture from materials of any head-
products of the printing industry; manuscripts, ing, except that of the product
typescripts and plans; except for:
4909 Printed or illustrated postcards; printed cards Manufacture from materials of any head-
bearing personal greetings, messages or ing, except those of headings 4909
announcements, whether or not illustrated, with and 4911
or without envelopes or trimmings
4910 Calendars of any kind, printed, including calen-
dar blocks:
– Calendars of the ‘perpetual’ type or with Manufacture:
replaceable blocks mounted on bases other
than paper or paperboard
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except those of headings 4909
and 4911
ex Chapter 50 Silk; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the productL 265/156 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 5003 Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for Carding or combing of silk waste
reeling, yarn waste and garnetted stock), carded
or combed
5004 to Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste Manufacture from (7):
ex 5006
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— other natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5007 Woven fabrics of silk or of silk waste:
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 51 Wool, fine or coarse animal hair; horsehair yarn Manufacture from materials of any head-
and woven fabric; except for: ing, except that of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/157
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5106 to 5110 Yarn of wool, of fine or coarse animal hair or of Manufacture from (7)
horsehair
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5111 to 5113 Woven fabrics of wool, of fine or coarse animal
hair or of horsehair:
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7)
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 52 Cotton; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the productL 265/158 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5204 to 5207 Yarn and thread of cotton Manufacture from (7)
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5208 to 5212 Woven fabrics of cotton:
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 53 Other vegetable textile fibres; paper yarn and Manufacture from materials of any head-
woven fabrics of paper yarn; except for: ing, except that of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/159
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5306 to 5308 Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres; paper yarn Manufacture from (7):
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5309 to 5311 Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile fibres;
woven fabrics of paper yarn:
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— jute yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
5401 to 5406 Yarn, monofilament and thread of man-made Manufacture from (7):
filaments
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,L 265/160 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5407 and Woven fabrics of man-made filament yarn:
5408
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
5501 to 5507 Man-made staple fibres Manufacture from chemical materials or
textile pulp
5508 to 5511 Yarn and sewing thread of man-made staple Manufacture from (7):
fibres
— raw silk or silk waste, carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/161
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5512 to 5516 Woven fabrics of man-made staple fibres:
– Incorporating rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise prepared
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
ex Chapter 56 Wadding, felt and non-wovens; special yarns; Manufacture from (7):
twine, cordage, ropes and cables and articles
thereof; except for:
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5602 Felt, whether or not impregnated, coated, cov-
ered or laminated:
– Needleloom felt Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulpL 265/162 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
However:
— polypropylene filament of head-
ing 5402,
— polypropylene fibres of head-
ing 5503 or 5506,
or
— polypropylene filament tow of
heading 5501,
of which the denomination in all cases
of a single filament or fibre is less than
9 decitex, may be used, provided that
their total value does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres made from
casein,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
5604 Rubber thread and cord, textile covered; textile
yarn, and strip and the like of heading 5404
or 5405, impregnated, coated, covered or
sheathed with rubber or plastics:
– Rubber thread and cord, textile covered Manufacture from rubber thread or cord,
not textile covered
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5605 Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped, being Manufacture from (7):
textile yarn, or strip or the like of heading 5404
or 5405, combined with metal in the form of
— natural fibres,
thread, strip or powder or covered with metal
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/163
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
5606 Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of head- Manufacture from (7):
ing 5404 or 5405, gimped (other than those of
heading 5605 and gimped horsehair yarn); che-
— natural fibres,
nille yarn (including flock chenille yarn); loop
wale-yarn
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
— chemical materials or textile pulp,
or
— paper-making materials
Chapter 57 Carpets and other textile floor coverings:
– Of needleloom felt Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
However:
— polypropylene filament of head-
ing 5402,
— polypropylene fibres of head-
ing 5503 or 5506,
— polypropylene filament tow of
heading 5501,
of which the denomination in all cases
of a single filament or fibre is less than
9 decitex, may be used, provided that
their total value does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Jute fabric may be used as a backingL 265/164 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Of other felt Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn or jute yarn,
— synthetic or artificial filament yarn,
— natural fibres,
or
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning
Jute fabric may be used as a backing
ex Chapter 58 Special woven fabrics; tufted textile fabrics; lace;
tapestries; trimmings; embroidery; except for:
– Combined with rubber thread Manufacture from single yarn (7)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/165
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5805 Hand-woven tapestries of the types Gobelins, Manufacture from materials of any
Flanders, Aubusson, Beauvais and the like, and heading, except that of the product
needle-worked tapestries (for example, petit
point, cross stitch), whether or not made up
5810 Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
5901 Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous Manufacture from yarn
substances, of a kind used for the outer covers
of books or the like; tracing cloth; prepared
painting canvas; buckram and similar stiffened
textile fabrics of a kind used for hat foundations
5902 Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn of nylon
or other polyamides, polyesters or viscose
rayon:
– Containing not more than 90 % by weight of Manufacture from yarn
textile materials
– Other Manufacture from chemical materials or
textile pulp
5903 Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or Manufacture from yarn
laminated with plastics, other than those of
heading 5902
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, rasing, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
5904 Linoleum, whether or note cut to shape; floor Manufacture from yarn (7)
coverings consisting of a coating or covering
applied on a textile backing, whether or not cut
to shape
5905 Textile wall coverings:
– Impregnated, coated, covered or laminated Manufacture from yarn
with rubber, plastics or other materialsL 265/166 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, raising, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product
5906 Rubberised textile fabrics, other than those of
heading 5902:
– Knitted or crocheted fabrics Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
– Other fabrics made of synthetic filament Manufacture from chemical materials
yarn, containing more than 90 % by weight
of textile materials
– Other Manufacture from yarn
5907 Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated, coated Manufacture from yarn
or covered; painted canvas being theatrical scen-
ery, studio back-cloths or the like
or
Printing accompanied by at least two
preparatory or finishing operations
(such as scouring, bleaching, merceris-
ing, heat setting, rasing, calendering,
shrink resistance processing, permanent
finishing, decatising, impregnating,
mending and burling), provided that the
value of the unprinted fabric used does
not exceed 47,5 % of the ex-works price
of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/167
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
5908 Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted, for
lamps, stoves, lighters, candles or the like;
incandescent gas mantles and tubular knitted
gas mantle fabric therefor, whether or not
impregnated:
– Incandescent gas mantles, impregnated Manufacture from tubular knitted gas-
mantle fabric
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
5909 to 5911 Textile articles of a kind suitable for industrial
use:
– Polishing discs or rings other than of felt of Manufacture from yarn or waste fabrics
heading 5911 or rags of heading 6310
– Woven fabrics, of a kind commonly used in Manufacture from (7):
papermaking or other technical uses, felted
or not, whether or not impregnated
– coir yarn,
or coated, tubular or endless with single or
multiple warp and/or weft, or flat woven
– the following materials:
with multiple warp and/or weft of head-
ing 5911
– – yarn of polytetrafluoroethylene (8),
– – yarn, multiple, of polyamide,
coated impregnated or covered
with a phenolic resin,
– – yarn of synthetic textile fibres of
aromatic polyamides, obtained by
polycondensation of
m-phenylenediamine and isoph-
thalic acid,
– – monofil of polytetrafluoroethyl-
ene (8),
– – yarn of synthetic textile fibres of
poly(p-phenylene terephthalamide),
– – glass fibre yarn, coated with phenol
resin and gimped with acrylic
yarn (8),
– – copolyester monofilaments of a
polyester and a resin of terephthalic
acid and 1,4-cyclohexanediethanol
and isophthalic acid,
– – natural fibres,
– – man-made staple fibres not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
– – chemical materials or textile pulpL 265/168 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— coir yarn,
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
Chapter 60 Knitted or crocheted fabrics Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
Chapter 61 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories,
knitted or crocheted:
– Obtained by sewing together or otherwise Manufacture from yarn (7) (10)
assembling, two or more pieces of knitted
or crocheted fabric which have been either
cut to form or obtained directly to form
– Other Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
ex Chapter 62 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, not Manufacture from yarn (7) (9)
knitted or crocheted; except for:
ex 6202, ex 6204, Women’s, girls’ and babies’ clothing and cloth- Manufacture from yarn (9)
ex 6206, ex 6209 ing accessories for babies, embroidered
and ex 6211
or
Manufacture from unembroidered fab-
ric, provided that the value of the unem-
broidered fabric used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product (9)10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/169
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 6210 and Fire-resistant equipment of fabric covered with Manufacture from yarn (9)
ex 6216 foil of aluminised polyester
or
Manufacture from uncoated fabric, pro-
vided that the value of the uncoated fab-
ric used does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product (9)
6213 and Handkerchiefs, shawls, scarves, mufflers, man-
6214 tillas, veils and the like:
– Embroidered Manufacture from unbleached single
yarn (7) (9)
or
Manufacture from unembroidered fab-
ric, provided that the value of the unem-
broidered fabric used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product (9)
– Other Manufacture from unbleached single
yarn (7) (9)
or
Making up, followed by printing accom-
panied by at least two preparatory or fin-
ishing operations (such as scouring,
bleaching, mercerising, heat setting, rais-
ing, calendering, shrink resistance pro-
cessing, permanent finishing, decatising,
impregnating, mending and burling),
provided that the value of all the
unprinted goods of headings 6213
and 6214 used does not exceed 47,5 %
of the ex-works price of the product
6217 Other made up clothing accessories; parts of
garments or of clothing accessories, other than
those of heading 6212:
– Embroidered Manufacture from yarn (9)
or
Manufacture from unembroidered fab-
ric, provided that the value of the unem-
broidered fabric used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product (9)
– Fire-resistant equipment of fabric covered Manufacture from yarn (9)
with foil of aluminised polyester
or
Manufacture from uncoated fabric, pro-
vided that the value of the uncoated fab-
ric used does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product (9)L 265/170 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Interlinings for collars and cuffs, cut out Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from yarn (9)
ex Chapter 63 Other made-up textile articles; sets; worn cloth- Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing and worn textile articles; rags; except for: ing, except that of the product
6301 to 6304 Blankets, travelling rugs, bed linen etc.; curtains
etc.; other furnishing articles:
– Of felt, of nonwovens Manufacture from (7):
— natural fibres,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
– Other:
– – Embroidered Manufacture from unbleached single
yarn (9) (10)
or
Manufacture from unembroidered fabric
(other than knitted or crocheted), pro-
vided that the value of the unembroi-
dered fabric used does not exceed 40 %
of the ex-works price of the product
– – Other Manufacture from unbleached single
yarn (9) (10)
6305 Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing Manufacture from (7):
of goods
— natural fibres,
— man-made staple fibres, not carded
or combed or otherwise processed
for spinning,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/171
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
6306 Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds; tents; sails
for boats, sailboards or landcraft; camping
goods:
– Of nonwovens Manufacture from (7) (9):
— natural fibres,
or
— chemical materials or textile pulp
– Other Manufacture from unbleached single
yarn (7) (9)
6307 Other made-up articles, including dress patterns Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
6308 Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn, Each item in the set must satisfy the rule
whether or not with accessories, for making up which would apply to it if it were not
into rugs, tapestries, embroidered table cloths or included in the set. However, non-
serviettes, or similar textile articles, put up in originating articles may be incorporated,
packings for retail sale provided that their total value does not
exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the
set
ex Chapter 64 Footwear, gaiters and the like; parts of such Manufacture from materials of any head-
articles; except for: ing, except from assemblies of uppers
affixed to inner soles or to other sole
components of heading 6406
6406 Parts of footwear (including uppers whether or Manufacture from materials of any head-
not attached to soles other than outer soles); ing, except that of the product
removable in-soles, heel cushions and similar
articles; gaiters, leggings and similar articles, and
parts thereof
ex Chapter 65 Headgear and parts thereof; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
6503 Felt hats and other felt headgear, made from the Manufacture from yarn or textile
hat bodies, hoods or plateaux of heading 6501, fibres (9)
whether or not lined or trimmed
6505 Hats and other headgear, knitted or crocheted, Manufacture from yarn or textile
or made up from lace, felt or other textile fab- fibres (9)
ric, in the piece (but not in strips), whether or
not lined or trimmed; hair-nets of any material,
whether or not lined or trimmed
ex Chapter 66 Umbrellas, sun umbrellas, walking-sticks, seat- Manufacture from materials of any head-
sticks, whips, riding-crops, and parts thereof; ing, except that of the product
except for:
6601 Umbrellas and sun umbrellas (including Manufacture in which the value of all the
walking-stick umbrellas, garden umbrellas and materials used does not exceed 50 % of
similar umbrellas) the ex-works price of the productL 265/172 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
Chapter 67 Prepared feathers and down and articles made of Manufacture from materials of any
feathers or of down; artificial flowers; articles of heading, except that of the product
human hair
ex Chapter 68 Articles of stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica Manufacture from materials of any
or similar materials; except for: heading, except that of the product
ex 6803 Articles of slate or of agglomerated slate Manufacture from worked slate
ex 6812 Articles of asbestos; articles of mixtures with a Manufacture from materials of any
basis of asbestos or of mixtures with a basis of heading
asbestos and magnesium carbonate
ex 6814 Articles of mica, including agglomerated or Manufacture from worked mica
reconstituted mica, on a support of paper, (including agglomerated or reconstituted
paperboard or other materials mica)
Chapter 69 Ceramic products Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
ex Chapter 70 Glass and glassware; except for: Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
ex 7003, ex 7004 Glass with a non-reflecting layer Manufacture from materials of
and ex 7005 heading 7001
7006 Glass of heading 7003, 7004 or 7005, bent,
edge-worked, engraved, drilled, enamelled or
otherwise worked, but not framed or fitted with
other materials:
– Glass-plate substrates, coated with a dielec- Manufacture from non-coated glass-
tric thin film, and of a semiconductor grade plate substrate of heading 7006
in accordance with SEMII-standards (11)
– Other Manufacture from materials of head-
ing 7001
7007 Safety glass, consisting of toughened (tempered) Manufacture from materials of head-
or laminated glass ing 7001
7008 Multiple-walled insulating units of glass Manufacture from materials of head-
ing 7001
7009 Glass mirrors, whether or not framed, including Manufacture from materials of head-
rear-view mirrors ing 700110.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/173
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
7010 Carboys, bottles, flasks, jars, pots, phials, Manufacture from materials of any head-
ampoules and other containers, of glass, of a ing, except that of the product
kind used for the conveyance or packing of
goods; preserving jars of glass; stoppers, lids and
or
other closures, of glass
Cutting of glassware, provided that the
total value of the uncut glassware used
does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works
price of the product
7013 Glassware of a kind used for table, kitchen, toi- Manufacture from materials of any head-
let, office, indoor decoration or similar purposes ing, except that of the product
(other than that of heading 7010 or 7018)
or
Cutting of glassware, provided that the
total value of the uncut glassware used
does not exceed 50 % of the ex-works
price of the product
or
Hand-decoration (except silk-screen
printing) of hand-blown glassware, pro-
vided that the total value of the hand-
blown glassware used does not exceed
50 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 7019 Articles (other than yarn) of glass fibres Manufacture from:
— uncoloured slivers, rovings, yarn
or chopped strands,
or
— glass wool
ex Chapter 71 Natural or cultured pearls, precious or semi- Manufacture from materials of any head-
precious stones, precious metals, metals clad ing, except that of the product
with precious metal, and articles thereof; imita-
tion jewellery; coin; except for:
ex 7101 Natural or cultured pearls, graded and tempo- Manufacture in which the value of all the
rarily strung for convenience of transport materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 7102, ex 7103 Worked precious or semi-precious stones (natu- Manufacture from unworked precious or
and ex 7104 ral, synthetic or reconstructed) semi-precious stonesL 265/174 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
7106, 7108 Precious metals:
and 7110
– Unwrought Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except those of headings 7106,
7108 and 7110
or
Electrolytic, thermal or chemical separa-
tion of precious metals of heading 7106,
7108 or 7110
or
Alloying of precious metals of head-
ing 7106, 7108 or 7110 with each other
or with base metals
– Semi-manufactured or in powder form Manufacture from unwrought precious
metals
ex 7107, ex 7109 Metals clad with precious metals, semi- Manufacture from metals clad with pre-
and ex 7111 manufactured cious metals, unwrought
7116 Articles of natural or cultured pearls, precious Manufacture in which the value of all the
or semi-precious stones (natural, synthetic materials used does not exceed 50 % of
or reconstructed) the ex-works price of the product
7117 Imitation jewellery Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
or
Manufacture from base metal parts, not
plated or covered with precious metals,
provided that the value of all the materi-
als used does not exceed 50 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 72 Iron and steel; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
7207 Semi-finished products of iron or non-alloy Manufacture from materials of head-
steel ing 7201, 7202, 7203, 7204 or 7205
7208 to 7216 Flat-rolled products, bars and rods, angles, Manufacture from ingots or other pri-
shapes and sections of iron or non-alloy steel mary forms of heading 7206
7217 Wire of iron or non-alloy steel Manufacture from semi-finished materi-
als of heading 7207
ex 7218, 7219 to Semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, Manufacture from ingots or other pri-
7222 bars and rods, angles, shapes and sections of mary forms of heading 7218
stainless steel
7223 Wire of stainless steel Manufacture from semi-finished materi-
als of heading 721810.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/175
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 7224, 7225 to Semi-finished products, flat-rolled products, Manufacture from ingots or other
7228 hot-rolled bars and rods, in irregularly wound primary forms of heading 7206, 7218
coils; angles, shapes and sections, of other alloy or 7224
steel; hollow drill bars and rods, of alloy or
non-alloy steel
7229 Wire of other alloy steel Manufacture from semi-finished
materials of heading 7224
ex Chapter 73 Articles of iron or steel; except for: Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
ex 7301 Sheet piling Manufacture from materials of
heading 7206
7302 Railway or tramway track construction material Manufacture from materials of
of iron or steel, the following: rails, check-rails heading 7206
and rack rails, switch blades, crossing frogs,
point rods and other crossing pieces, sleepers
(cross-ties), fish-plates, chairs, chair wedges, sole
pates (base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties and
other material specialised for jointing or fixing
rails
7304, 7305 Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of iron (other Manufacture from materials of
and 7306 than cast iron) or steel heading 7206, 7207, 7218 or 7224
ex 7307 Tube or pipe fittings of stainless steel Turning, drilling, reaming, threading,
(ISO No X5CrNiMo 1712), consisting of several deburring and sandblasting of forged
parts blanks, provided that the total value of
the forged blanks used does not exceed
35 % of the ex-works price of the
product
7308 Structures (excluding prefabricated buildings of Manufacture from materials of any
heading 9406) and parts of structures (for heading, except that of the product.
example, bridges and bridge-sections, However, welded angles, shapes and
lock-gates, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing sections of heading 7301 may not be
frameworks, doors and windows and their used
frames and thresholds for doors, shutters,
balustrades, pillars and columns), of iron or
steel; plates, rods, angles, shapes, sections, tubes
and the like, prepared for use in structures, of
iron or steel
ex 7315 Skid chain Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials of heading 7315 used does not
exceed 50 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 74 Copper and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
7401 Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated Manufacture from materials of any head-
copper) ing, except that of the productL 265/176 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
7402 Unrefined copper; copper anodes for Manufacture from materials of any
electrolytic refining heading, except that of the product
7403 Refined copper and copper alloys, unwrought:
– Refined copper Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
– Copper alloys and refined copper containing Manufacture from refined copper,
other elements unwrought, or waste and scrap of cop-
per
7404 Copper waste and scrap Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
7405 Master alloys of copper Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
ex Chapter 75 Nickel and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
7501 to 7503 Nickel mattes, nickel oxide sinters and other Manufacture from materials of any head-
intermediate products of nickel metallurgy; ing, except that of the product
unwrought nickel; nickel waste and scrap
ex Chapter 76 Aluminium and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/177
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
7601 Unwrought aluminium Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
or
Manufacture by thermal or electrolytic
treatment from unalloyed aluminium or
waste and scrap of aluminium
7602 Aluminium waste or scrap Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
ex 7616 Aluminium articles other than gauze, cloth, Manufacture:
grill, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric and
similar materials (including endless bands) of
— from materials of any heading,
aluminium wire, and expanded metal of alu-
except that of the product. How-
minium
ever, gauze, cloth, grill, netting,
fencing, reinforcing fabric and simi-
lar materials (including endless
bands) of aluminium wire, or
expanded metal of aluminium may
be used;
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 77 Reserved for possible future use in the HS
ex Chapter 78 Lead and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
7801 Unwrought lead:
– Refined lead Manufacture from ‘bullion’ or ‘work’ lead
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
waste and scrap of heading 7802 may
not be usedL 265/178 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
7802 Lead waste and scrap Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
ex Chapter 79 Zinc and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
7901 Unwrought zinc Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
waste and scrap of heading 7902 may
not be used
7902 Zinc waste and scrap Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product
ex Chapter 80 Tin and articles thereof; except for: Manufacture:
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8001 Unwrought tin Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
waste and scrap of heading 8002 may
not be used
8002 and Tin waste and scrap; other articles of tin Manufacture from materials of any head-
8007 ing, except that of the product
Chapter 81 Other base metals; cermets; articles thereof:
– Other base metals, wrought; articles thereof Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials of the same heading as the
product used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/179
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 82 Tools, implements, cutlery, spoons and forks, of Manufacture from materials of any
base metal; parts thereof of base metal; except heading, except that of the product
for:
8206 Tools of two or more of the headings 8202 Manufacture from materials of any
to 8205, put up in sets for retail sale heading, except those of headings 8202
to 8205. However, tools of
headings 8202 to 8205 may be
incorporated into the set, provided that
their total value does not exceed 15 % of
the ex-works price of the set
8207 Interchangeable tools for hand tools, whether or Manufacture:
not power-operated, or for machine-tools (for
example, for pressing, stamping, punching,
— from materials of any heading,
tapping, threading, drilling, boring, broaching,
except that of the product,
milling, turning, or screwdriving), including dies
for drawing or extruding metal, and rock drilling
and
or earth boring tools
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8208 Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for Manufacture:
mechanical appliances
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8211 Knives with cutting blades, serrated or not Manufacture from materials of any head-
(including pruning knives), other than knives of ing, except that of the product. However,
heading 8208 knife blades and handles of base metal
may be used
8214 Other articles of cutlery (for example, hair clip- Manufacture from materials of any head-
pers, butchers’ or kitchen cleavers, choppers and ing, except that of the product. However,
mincing knives, paper knives); manicure or handles of base metal may be used
pedicure sets and instruments (including nail
files)
8215 Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers, cake-servers, Manufacture from materials of any head-
fish-knives, butter-knives, sugar tongs and simi- ing, except that of the product. However,
lar kitchen or tableware handles of base metal may be used
ex Chapter 83 Miscellaneous articles of base metal; except for: Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the productL 265/180 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 8302 Other mountings, fittings and similar Manufacture from materials of any
articles suitable for buildings, and automatic heading, except that of the product.
door closers However, other materials of
heading 8302 may be used, provided
that their total value does not exceed
20 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 8306 Statuettes and other ornaments, of base metal Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product.
However, other materials of
heading 8306 may be used, provided
that their total value does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex Chapter 84 Nuclear reactors, boilers, machinery and Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
mechanical appliances; parts thereof; except for: the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8401 Nuclear fuel elements Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except that of the product (12) the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
8402 Steam or other vapour generating boilers (other Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
than central heating hot water boilers capable the materials used does not exceed
also of producing low pressure steam); super- 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
heated water boilers product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8403 and Central heating boilers other than those of head- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ex 8404 ing 8402 and auxiliary plant for central heating ing, except those of headings 8403 and the materials used does not exceed
boilers 8404 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
8406 Steam turbines and other vapour turbines Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8407 Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal Manufacture in which the value of all the
combustion piston engines materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/181
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8408 Compression-ignition internal combustion Manufacture in which the value of all the
piston engines (diesel or semi-diesel engines) materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8409 Parts suitable for use solely or principally with Manufacture in which the value of all the
the engines of heading 8407 or 8408 materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8411 Turbo-jets, turbo-propellers and other gas Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
turbines the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8412 Other engines and motors Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8413 Rotary positive displacement pumps Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8414 Industrial fans, blowers and the like Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8415 Air conditioning machines, comprising a Manufacture in which the value of all the
motor-driven fan and elements for changing the materials used does not exceed 40 % of
temperature and humidity, including those the ex-works price of the product
machines in which the humidity cannot be sepa-
rately regulatedL 265/182 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8418 Refrigerators, freezers and other refrigerating or Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
freezing equipment, electric or other; heat the materials used does not exceed
pumps other than air conditioning machines of 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
heading 8415 product
except that of the product,
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the non-
originating materials used does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials used
ex 8419 Machines for wood, paper pulp, paper and Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
paperboard industries the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of the same head-
ing as the product used does not
exceed 25 % of the ex-works price
of the product
8420 Calendering or other rolling machines, other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
than for metals or glass, and cylinders therefor the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of the same head-
ing as the product used does not
exceed 25 % of the ex-works price
of the product
8423 Weighing machinery (excluding balances of a Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
sensitivity of 5 cg or better), including weight the materials used does not exceed
operated counting or checking machines; 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
weighing machine weights of all kinds product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/183
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8425 to 8428 Lifting, handling, loading or unloading Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
machinery the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8431
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
8429 Self-propelled bulldozers, angledozers, graders,
levellers, scrapers, mechanical shovels, excava-
tors, shovel loaders, tamping machines and road
rollers:
– Road rollers Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8431
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
8430 Other moving, grading, levelling, scraping, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
excavating, tamping, compacting, extracting or the materials used does not exceed
boring machinery, for earth, minerals or ores; 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
pile-drivers and pile-extractors; snow-ploughs product
does not exceed 40 % of the
and snow-blowers
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8431
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 8431 Parts suitable for use solely or principally with Manufacture in which the value of all the
road rollers materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the productL 265/184 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8439 Machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
material or for making or finishing paper or the materials used does not exceed
paperboard 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of the same head-
ing as the product used does not
exceed 25 % of the ex-works price
of the product
8441 Other machinery for making up paper pulp, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
paper or paperboard, including cutting the materials used does not exceed
machines of all kinds 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of the same head-
ing as the product used does not
exceed 25 % of the ex-works price
of the product
8444 to 8447 Machines of these headings for use in the textile Manufacture in which the value of all the
industry materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8448 Auxiliary machinery for use with machines of Manufacture in which the value of all the
headings 8444 and 8445 materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8452 Sewing machines, other than book-sewing
machines of heading 8440; furniture, bases
and covers specially designed for sewing
machines; sewing machine needles:
– Sewing machines (lock stitch only) with Manufacture in which:
heads of a weight not exceeding 16 kg with-
out motor or 17 kg with motor
— the value of all the materials used
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used in assembling the
head (without motor) does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials used,
and
— the thread-tension, crochet and zig-
zag mechanisms used are originat-
ing
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/185
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8456 to 8466 Machine-tools and machines and their parts and Manufacture in which the value of all the
accessories of headings 8456 to 8466 materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8469 to 8472 Office machines (for example, typewriters, Manufacture in which the value of all the
calculating machines, automatic data processing materials used does not exceed 40 % of
machines, duplicating machines, stapling the ex-works price of the product
machines)
8480 Moulding boxes for metal foundry; mould Manufacture in which the value of all the
bases; moulding patterns; moulds for metal materials used does not exceed 50 % of
(other than ingot moulds), metal carbides, glass, the ex-works price of the product
mineral materials, rubber or plastics
8482 Ball or roller bearings Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8484 Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting Manufacture in which the value of all the
combined with other material or of two or more materials used does not exceed 40 % of
layers of metal; sets or assortments of gaskets the ex-works price of the product
and similar joints, dissimilar in composition,
put up in pouches, envelopes or similar pack-
ings; mechanical seals
8485 Machinery parts, not containing electrical con- Manufacture in which the value of all the
nectors, insulators, coils, contacts or other elec- materials used does not exceed 40 % of
trical features, not specified or included the ex-works price of the product
elsewhere in this Chapter
ex Chapter 85 Electrical machinery and equipment and parts Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
thereof; sound recorders and reproducers, tele- the materials used does not exceed
vision image and sound recorders and repro- 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
ducers, and parts and accessories of such product
except that of the product,
articles; except for:
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8501 Electric motors and generators (excluding gen- Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
erating sets) the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8503
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the productL 265/186 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8502 Electric generating sets and rotary converters Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of headings 8501
and 8503 used does not exceed
10 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 8504 Power supply units for automatic data- Manufacture in which the value of all the
processing machines materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 8518 Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
whether or not mounted in their enclosures; the materials used does not exceed
audio-frequency electric amplifiers; electric 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
sound amplifier sets product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8519 Turntables (record-decks), record-players, cas- Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
sette-players and other sound reproducing the materials used does not exceed
apparatus, not incorporating a sound recording 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
device product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8520 Magnetic tape recorders and other sound Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
recording apparatus, whether or not incorporat- the materials used does not exceed
ing a sound reproducing device 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/187
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8521 Video recording or reproducing apparatus, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
whether or not incorporating a video tuner the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8522 Parts and accessories suitable for use solely or Manufacture in which the value of all the
principally with the apparatus of headings 8519 materials used does not exceed 40 % of
to 8521 the ex-works price of the product
8523 Prepared unrecorded media for sound recording Manufacture in which the value of all the
or similar recording of other phenomena, other materials used does not exceed 40 % of
than products of Chapter 37 the ex-works price of the product
8524 Records, tapes and other recorded media for
sound or other similarly recorded phenomena,
including matrices and masters for the produc-
tion of records, but excluding products of Chap-
ter 37:
– Matrices and masters for the production of Manufacture in which the value of all the
records materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8523
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
8525 Transmission apparatus for radio-telephony, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
radio-telegraphy, radio-broadcasting or televi- the materials used does not exceed
sion, whether or not incorporating reception 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
apparatus or sound recording or reproducing product
does not exceed 40 % of the
apparatus; television cameras; still image video
ex-works price of the product,
cameras and other video camera recorders; digi-
tal cameras
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als usedL 265/188 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8526 Radar apparatus, radio navigational aid Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
apparatus and radio remote control apparatus the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8527 Reception apparatus for radio-telephony, radio- Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
telegraphy or radio-broadcasting, whether or the materials used does not exceed
not combined, in the same housing, with sound 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
recording or reproducing apparatus or a clock product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8528 Reception apparatus for television, whether or Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
not incorporating radio broadcast receivers or the materials used does not exceed
sound or video recording or reproducing appa- 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
ratus; video monitors and video projectors product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
8529 Parts suitable for use solely or principally with
the apparatus of headings 8525 to 8528:
– Suitable for use solely or principally with Manufacture in which the value of all the
video recording or reproducing apparatus materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/189
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
8535 and Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
8536 electrical circuits, or for making connections to the materials used does not exceed
or in electrical circuits 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8538
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
8537 Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets and Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
other bases, equipped with two or more appa- the materials used does not exceed
ratus of heading 8535 or 8536, for electric con- 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
trol or the distribution of electricity, including product
does not exceed 40 % of the
those incorporating instruments or apparatus of
ex-works price of the product,
Chapter 90, and numerical control apparatus,
other than switching apparatus of heading 8517
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 8538
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
ex 8541 Diodes, transistors and similar semi-conductor Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
devices, except wafers not yet cut into chips the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8542 Electronic integrated circuits and microassem-
blies:
– Monolithic integrated circuits Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product, and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of headings 8541
and 8542 used does not exceed
10 % of the ex-works price of the
product
or
The operation of diffusion (in
which integrated circuits are
formed on a semi-conductor sub-
strate by the selective introduction
of an appropriate dopant), whether
or not assembled and/or tested in a
country other than those specified
in Articles 3 and 4L 265/190 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of headings 8541
and 8542 used does not exceed
10 % of the ex-works price of the
product
8544 Insulated (including enamelled or anodised) Manufacture in which the value of all the
wire, cable (including coaxial cable) and other materials used does not exceed 40 % of
insulated electric conductors, whether or not fit- the ex-works price of the product
ted with connectors; optical fibre cables, made
up of individually sheathed fibres, whether or
not assembled with electric conductors or fitted
with connectors
8545 Carbon electrodes, carbon brushes, lamp car- Manufacture in which the value of all the
bons, battery carbons and other articles of materials used does not exceed 40 % of
graphite or other carbon, with or without metal, the ex-works price of the product
of a kind used for electrical purposes
8546 Electrical insulators of any material Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8547 Insulating fittings for electrical machines, appli- Manufacture in which the value of all the
ances or equipment, being fittings wholly of materials used does not exceed 40 % of
insulating materials apart from any minor com- the ex-works price of the product
ponents of metal (for example, threaded sock-
ets) incorporated during moulding solely for
purposes of assembly, other than insulators of
heading 8546; electrical conduit tubing and
joints therefor, of base metal lined with insulat-
ing material
8548 Waste and scrap of primary cells, primary bat- Manufacture in which the value of all the
teries and electric accumulators; spent primary materials used does not exceed 40 % of
cells, spent primary batteries and spent electric the ex-works price of the product
accumulators; electrical parts of machinery or
apparatus, not specified or included elsewhere
in this chapter
ex Chapter 86 Railway or tramway locomotives, rolling-stock Manufacture in which the value of all the
and parts thereof; railway or tramway track fix- materials used does not exceed 40 % of
tures and fittings and parts thereof; mechanical the ex-works price of the product
(including electro-mechanical) traffic signalling
equipment of all kinds; except for:
8608 Railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings; Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
mechanical (including electromechanical) sig- the materials used does not exceed
nalling, safety or traffic control equipment for 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
railways, tramways, roads, inland waterways, product
except that of the product,
parking facilities, port installations or airfields;
parts of the foregoing
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/191
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 87 Vehicles other than railway or tramway Manufacture in which the value of all the
rolling-stock, and parts and accessories thereof; materials used does not exceed 40 % of
except for: the ex-works price of the product
8709 Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted with Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
lifting or handling equipment, of the type used the materials used does not exceed
in factories, warehouses, dock areas or airports 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
for short distance transport of goods; tractors of product
except that of the product,
the type used on railway station platforms; parts
of the foregoing vehicles
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8710 Tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
motorised, whether or not fitted with weapons, the materials used does not exceed
and parts of such vehicles 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8711 Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fit-
ted with an auxiliary motor, with or without
side-cars; side-cars:
– With reciprocating internal combustion pis-
ton engine of a cylinder capacity:
– – Not exceeding 50 cm3 Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
20 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
– – Exceeding 50 cm3 Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als usedL 265/192 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
ex 8712 Bicycles without ball bearings Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, except those of heading 8714 the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
8715 Baby carriages and parts thereof Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
8716 Trailers and semi-trailers; other vehicles, not Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
mechanically propelled; parts thereof the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 88 Aircraft, spacecraft, and parts thereof; except Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
for: ing, except that of the product the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 8804 Rotochutes Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ing, including other materials of head- the materials used does not exceed
ing 8804 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
8805 Aircraft launching gear; deck-arrestor or similar Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
gear; ground flying trainers; parts of the forego- ing, except that of the product the materials used does not exceed
ing articles 30 % of the ex-works price of the
product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/193
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
Chapter 89 Ships, boats and floating structures Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
heading, except that of the product. the materials used does not exceed
However, hulls of heading 8906 may not 40 % of the ex-works price of the
be used product
ex Chapter 90 Optical, photographic, cinematographic, Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
measuring, checking, precision, medical or the materials used does not exceed
surgical instruments and apparatus; parts and 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
accessories thereof; except for: product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9001 Optical fibres and optical fibre bundles; optical Manufacture in which the value of all the
fibre cables other than those of heading 8544; materials used does not exceed 40 % of
sheets and plates of polarising material; lenses the ex-works price of the product
(including contact lenses), prisms, mirrors and
other optical elements, of any material,
unmounted, other than such elements of glass
not optically worked
9002 Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical ele- Manufacture in which the value of all the
ments, of any material, mounted, being parts of materials used does not exceed 40 % of
or fittings for instruments or apparatus, other the ex-works price of the product
than such elements of glass not optically worked
9004 Spectacles, goggles and the like, corrective, pro- Manufacture in which the value of all the
tective or other materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 9005 Binoculars, monoculars, other optical tele- Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
scopes, and mountings therefor, except for the materials used does not exceed
astronomical refracting telescopes and mount- 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
ings therefor product
except that of the product,
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product;
and
— in which the value of all the non-
originating materials used does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials usedL 265/194 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 9006 Photographic (other than cinematographic) Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
cameras; photographic flashlight apparatus and the materials used does not exceed
flashbulbs other than electrically ignited 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
flashbulbs product
except that of the product,
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the non-
originating materials used does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials used
9007 Cinematographic cameras and projectors, Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
whether or not incorporating sound recording the materials used does not exceed
or reproducing apparatus 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the non-
originating materials used does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials used
9011 Compound optical microscopes, including Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
those for photomicrography, cinephotomicro- the materials used does not exceed
graphy or microprojection 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the non-
originating materials used does not
exceed the value of all the originat-
ing materials used
ex 9014 Other navigational instruments and appliances Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/195
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
9015 Surveying (including photogrammetrical Manufacture in which the value of all the
surveying), hydrographic, oceanographic, materials used does not exceed 40 % of
hydrological, meteorological or geophysical the ex-works price of the product
instruments and appliances, excluding
compasses; rangefinders
9016 Balances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or better, with or Manufacture in which the value of all the
without weights materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9017 Drawing, marking-out or mathematical Manufacture in which the value of all the
calculating instruments (for example, drafting materials used does not exceed 40 % of
machines, pantographs, protractors, drawing the ex-works price of the product
sets, slide rules, disc calculators); instruments for
measuring length, for use in the hand (for
example, measuring rods and tapes,
micrometers, callipers), not specified
or included elsewhere in this chapter
9018 Instruments and appliances used in medical,
surgical, dental or veterinary sciences, including
scintigraphic apparatus, other electro-medical
apparatus and sight-testing instruments:
– Dentists’ chairs incorporating dental appli- Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ances or dentists’ spittoons ing, including other materials of head- the materials used does not exceed
ing 9018 40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
– Other Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9019 Mechano-therapy appliances; massage appara- Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
tus; psychological aptitude-testing apparatus; the materials used does not exceed
ozone therapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy, 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
artificial respiration or other therapeutic respi- product
except that of the product,
ration apparatus
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the productL 265/196 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
9020 Other breathing appliances and gas masks, Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
excluding protective masks having neither the materials used does not exceed
mechanical parts nor replaceable filters 25 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9024 Machines and appliances for testing the hard- Manufacture in which the value of all the
ness, strength, compressibility, elasticity or materials used does not exceed 40 % of
other mechanical properties of materials (for the ex-works price of the product
example, metals, wood, textiles, paper, plastics)
9025 Hydrometers and similar floating instruments, Manufacture in which the value of all the
thermometers, pyrometers, barometers, materials used does not exceed 40 % of
hygrometers and psychrometers, recording or the ex-works price of the product
not, and any combination of these instruments
9026 Instruments and apparatus for measuring Manufacture in which the value of all the
or checking the flow, level, pressure or other materials used does not exceed 40 % of
variables of liquids or gases (for example, flow the ex-works price of the product
meters, level gauges, manometers, heat meters),
excluding instruments and apparatus of head-
ing 9014, 9015, 9028 or 9032
9027 Instruments and apparatus for physical Manufacture in which the value of all the
or chemical analysis (for example, polarimeters, materials used does not exceed 40 % of
refractometers, spectrometers, gas or smoke the ex-works price of the product
analysis apparatus); instruments and apparatus
for measuring or checking viscosity, porosity,
expansion, surface tension or the like; instru-
ments and apparatus for measuring or checking
quantities of heat, sound or light (including
exposure meters); microtomes
9028 Gas, liquid or electricity supply or production
meters, including calibrating meters therefor:
– Parts and accessories Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/197
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
9029 Revolution counters, production counters, Manufacture in which the value of all the
taximeters, mileometers, pedometers and the materials used does not exceed 40 % of
like; speed indicators and tachometers, other the ex-works price of the product
than those of heading 9014 or 9015;
stroboscopes
9030 Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers and other Manufacture in which the value of all the
instruments and apparatus for measuring materials used does not exceed 40 % of
or checking electrical quantities, excluding the ex-works price of the product
meters of heading 9028; instruments and
apparatus for measuring or detecting alpha,
beta, gamma, X-ray, cosmic or other ionising
radiations
9031 Measuring or checking instruments, appliances Manufacture in which the value of all the
and machines, not specified or included materials used does not exceed 40 % of
elsewhere in this chapter; profile projectors the ex-works price of the product
9032 Automatic regulating or controlling Manufacture in which the value of all the
instruments and apparatus materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9033 Parts and accessories (not specified or included Manufacture in which the value of all the
elsewhere in this chapter) for machines, materials used does not exceed 40 % of
appliances, instruments or apparatus of the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 90
ex Chapter 91 Clocks and watches and parts thereof; except Manufacture in which the value of all the
for: materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9105 Other clocks Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als used
9109 Clock movements, complete and assembled Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— the value of all the non-originating
materials used does not exceed the
value of all the originating materi-
als usedL 265/198 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
9110 Complete watch or clock movements, Manufacture in which: Manufacture in which the value of all
unassembled or partly assembled (movement the materials used does not exceed
sets); incomplete watch or clock movements, 30 % of the ex-works price of the
— the value of all the materials used
assembled; rough watch or clock movements product
does not exceed 40 % of the
ex-works price of the product,
and
— within the above limit, the value of
all the materials of heading 9114
used does not exceed 10 % of the
ex-works price of the product
9111 Watch cases and parts thereof Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9112 Clock cases and cases of a similar type for other Manufacture: Manufacture in which the value of all
goods of this chapter, and parts thereof the materials used does not exceed
30 % of the ex-works price of the
— from materials of any heading,
product
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9113 Watch straps, watch bands and watch bracelets,
and parts thereof:
– Of base metal, whether or not gold- or silver- Manufacture in which the value of all the
plated, or of metal clad with precious metal materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
– Other Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 92 Musical instruments; parts and accessories of Manufacture in which the value of all the
such articles materials used does not exceed 40 % of
the ex-works price of the product
Chapter 93 Arms and ammunition; parts and accessories Manufacture in which the value of all the
thereof materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/199
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 94 Furniture; bedding, mattresses, mattress Manufacture from materials of any Manufacture in which the value of all
supports, cushions and similar stuffed heading, except that of the product the materials used does not exceed
furnishings; lamps and lighting fittings, not 40 % of the ex-works price of the
elsewhere specified or included; illuminated product
signs, illuminated name-plates and the like;
prefabricated buildings; except for:
ex 9401 and Base metal furniture, incorporating unstuffed Manufacture from materials of any head- Manufacture in which the value of all
ex 9403 cotton cloth of a weight of 300 g/m2 or less ing, except that of the product the materials used does not exceed
40 % of the ex-works price of the
product
or
Manufacture from cotton cloth already
made up in a form ready for use with
materials of heading 9401 or 9403, pro-
vided that:
— the value of the cloth does not
exceed 25 % of the ex-works price
of the product,
and
— all the other materials used are
originating and are classified in a
heading other than heading 9401
or 9403
9405 Lamps and lighting fittings including search- Manufacture in which the value of all the
lights and spotlights and parts thereof, not else- materials used does not exceed 50 % of
where specified or included; illuminated signs, the ex-works price of the product
illuminated name-plates and the like, having a
permanently fixed light source, and parts
thereof not elsewhere specified or included
9406 Prefabricated buildings Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex Chapter 95 Toys, games and sports requisites; parts and Manufacture from materials of any head-
accessories thereof; except for: ing, except that of the product
9503 Other toys; reduced-size (scale) models and Manufacture:
similar recreational models, working or not;
puzzles of all kinds
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
ex 9506 Golf clubs and parts thereof Manufacture from materials of any head-
ing, except that of the product. However,
roughly-shaped blocks for making golf-
club heads may be usedL 265/200 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex Chapter 96 Miscellaneous manufactured articles; except for: Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
ex 9601 and Articles of animal, vegetable or mineral carving Manufacture from ‘worked’ carving
ex 9602 materials materials of the same heading as the
product
ex 9603 Brooms and brushes (except for besoms and the Manufacture in which the value of all the
like and brushes made from marten or squirrel materials used does not exceed 50 % of
hair), hand-operated mechanical floor sweepers, the ex-works price of the product
not motorised, paint pads and rollers, squeegees
and mops
9605 Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing or shoe Each item in the set must satisfy the rule
or clothes cleaning which would apply to it if it were not
included in the set. However,
non-originating articles may be
incorporated, provided that their total
value does not exceed 15 % of the
ex-works price of the set
9606 Buttons, press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and Manufacture:
press-studs, button moulds and other parts of
these articles; button blanks
— from materials of any heading,
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product
9608 Ball-point pens; felt-tipped and other porous- Manufacture from materials of any head-
tipped pens and markers; fountain pens, stylo- ing, except that of the product. However,
graph pens and other pens; duplicating stylos; nibs or nib-points of the same heading
propelling or sliding pencils; pen-holders, as the product may be used
pencil-holders and similar holders; parts
(including caps and clips) of the foregoing
articles, other than those of heading 9609
9612 Typewriter or similar ribbons, inked or other- Manufacture:
wise prepared for giving impressions, whether
or not on spools or in cartridges; ink-pads,
— from materials of any heading,
whether or not inked, with or without boxes
except that of the product,
and
— in which the value of all the mate-
rials used does not exceed 50 % of
the ex-works price of the product10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/201
Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which confers originating
HS heading Desccription of product
status
(1) (2) (3) or (4)
ex 9613 Lighters with piezo-igniter Manufacture in which the value of all the
materials of heading 9613 used does not
exceed 30 % of the ex-works price of the
product
ex 9614 Smoking pipes and pipe bowls Manufacture from roughly-shaped
blocks
Chapter 97 Works of art, collectors’ pieces and antiques Manufacture from materials of any
heading, except that of the product
(1) For the special conditions relating to ‘specific processes’, see Introductory Notes 7.1 and 7.3.
(2) For the special conditions relating to ‘specific processes’, see Introductory Note 7.2.
(3) Note 3 to Chapter 32 says that these preparations are those of a kind used for colouring any material or used as ingredients in the manufacture of colouring preparations,
provided that they are not classified in another heading in Chapter 32.
(4) A ‘group’ is regarded as any part of the heading separated from the rest by a semicolon.
(5) In the case of the products composed of materials classified within both headings 3901 to 3906, on the one hand, and within headings 3907 to 3911, on the other hand,
this restriction only applies to that group of materials which predominates by weight in the product.
(6) The following foils shall be considered as highly transparent: foils, the optical dimming of which, measured according to ASTM-D 1003-16 by Gardner Hazemeter (i.e.
Hazefactor), is less than 2 %.
(7) For special conditions relating to products made of a mixture of textile materials, see Introductory Note 5.
(8) The use of this material is restricted to the manufacture of woven fabrics of a kind used in paper-making machinery.
(9) See Introductory Note 6.
(10) For knitted or crocheted articles, not elastic or rubberised, obtained by sewing or assembling pieces of knitted or crocheted fabrics (cut out or knitted directly to shape), see
Introductory Note 6.
(11) SEMII – Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Institute Incorporated.
(12) This rule shall apply until 31.12.2005.L 265/202 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 6: ANNEX III
movement certificate EUR.1 and application for a movement certificate EUR.1
Printing instructions
1. Each form shall measure 210 x 297 mm; a tolerance of up to minus 5 mm or plus 8 mm in the length may be
allowed. The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than
25 g/m2. It shall have a printed green guilloche pattern background making any falsification by mechanical or chemical
means apparent to the eye.
2. The competent authorities of the Member States of the Community and of Algeria may reserve the right to print the
forms themselves or may have them printed by approved printers. In the latter case, each form must include a reference
to such approval. Each form must bear the name and address of the printer or a mark by which the printer can be iden-
tified. It shall also bear a serial number, either printed or not, by which it can be identified.10.10.2005 Official Journal of the European Union L 265/203
ENL 265/204 Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EN10.10.2005 Official Journal of the European Union L 265/205
ENL 265/206 Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EN10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/207
PROTOCOL No 6 ANNEX IV
INVOICE DECLARATION
The invoice declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance with the footnotes. However, the
footnotes do not have to be reproduced.
French version
L’exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière No.… (1)) déclare que, sauf indication
claire du contraire, ces produits ont l’origine préférentielle… (2).
Spanish Version
El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera n°… (1)) declara que, salvo indi-
cación en sentido contrario, estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial… (2)
Danish Version
Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes tilladelse nr.… … (1)) erklærer, at
varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i… (2).
German Version
Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewilligungs-Nr.… (1)) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erk-
lärt, dass diese Waren, soweit nicht anders angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte… Ursprungswaren sind (2)
Greek version
Ο εξαγωγέας των προϊόντων που καλύπτονται από το παρόν έγγραφο (άδεια τελωνείου υπ’αριθ.… (1))δηλώνει ότι, εκτός εάν
δηλώνεται σαφώς άλλως, τα προϊόντα αυτά είναι προτιμησιακής καταγωγής… (2).
English version
The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs authorisation No… (1)) declares that, except where oth-
erwise clearly indicated, these products are of… preferential origin (2).
Italian Version
L’esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale n.… (1)) dichiara che, salvo indi-
cazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale… (2).
Dutch Version
De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning nr.… (1)) verklaart dat, behoudens
uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële… oorsprong zijn (2)
(1) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 23 of the Protocol, the authorisation
number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space. When the invoice declaration is not made out by an approved exporter,
the words in brackets must be omitted or the space left blank.
(2) Origin of products to be indicated. When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla
within the meaning of Article 38 of the Protocol, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is
made out by means of the symbol ‘CM’.L 265/208 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Portugese Version
O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira n°… (1)) declara que,
salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial… (2)
Finnish Version
Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin lupan: o… (1)) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi
merkitty, etuuskohteluun oikeutettuja… alkuperätuotteita (2)
Swedish Version
Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd nr.… (1)) försäkrar att dessa varor, om
inte annat tydligt markerats, har förmånsberättigande… ursprung (2)
Arabic version
......................................................… (3)
(Place and date)
.....................................................… (4))
(Signature of exporter; in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be indicated in clear script)
(1) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 23 of the Protocol, the authorisation
number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space. When the invoice declaration is not made out by an approved exporter,
the words in brackets must be omitted or the space left blank.
(2) Origin of products to be indicated. When the invoice declaration relates in whole or in part, to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla
within the meaning of Article 38 of the Protocol, the exporter must clearly indicate them in the document on which the declaration is
made out by means of the symbol ‘CM’.
(3) These indications may be omitted if the information is contained on the document itself.
(4) See Article 22(5) of the Protocol. In cases where the exporter is not required to sign, the exemption of signature also implies the exemp-
tion of the name of the signatory.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/209
PROTOCOL No 6: ANNEX V10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/211
PROTOCOL No 6: ANNEX VIL 265/212 Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
EN10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/213
PROTOCOL No 6: ANNEX VII
JOINT DECLARATIONS
Joint Declaration concerning the Principality of Andorra
1. Products originating in the Principality of Andorra falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Harmonised System shall be
accepted by Algeria as originating in the Community within the meaning of this Agreement.
2. Protocol 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating status of the abovementioned products.
Joint declaration concerning the Republic of San Marino
1. Products originating in the Republic of San Marino shall be accepted by Algeria as originating in the Community within
the meaning of this Agreement.
2. Protocol 6 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating status of the abovementioned products.
Joint Declaration on cumulation of origin
The Community and Algeria recognise the important role of cumulation of origin and confirm their commitment to intro-
ducing a system of diagonal cumulation of origin between partners agreeing to apply identical rules of origin. This diagonal
cumulation shall be introduced either between all the Mediterranean partners participating in the Barcelona process or
between those partners and the partners of the pan-European cumulation system, according to the results of the Euro-Med
Working Party on rules of origin.
The Community and Algeria shall therefore start consultations as soon as possible with a view to establishing the details of
Algeria’s accession to the diagonal cumulation system adopted. Protocol 6 shall be amended accordingly.L 265/214 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
PROTOCOL No 7
on mutual administrative assistance in the field of customs
Article 1 Article 3
Definitions Assistance on request
For the purposes of this Protocol:
1. At the request of the applicant authority, the requested
authority shall provide it with all relevant information which may
enable it to ensure that customs legislation is correctly applied,
(a) ‘customs legislation’ shall mean any legal or regulatory pro-
including information regarding activities noted or planned which
visions applicable in the territories of the Contracting Parties
are or could be operations in breach of customs legislation.
governing the import, export and transit of goods and their
placing under any other customs regime or procedure,
including measures of prohibition, restriction and control;
2. At the request of the applicant authority, the requested
authority shall inform it:
(b) ‘applicant authority’ shall mean a competent administrative
authority which has been designated by one of the Contract-
ing Parties for this purpose and which makes a request for
assistance on the basis of this Protocol; (a) whether goods exported from the territory of one of the Par-
ties have been properly imported into the territory of the
other Contracting Party, specifying, where appropriate, the
(c) ‘requested authority’ shall mean a competent administrative customs procedure applied to the goods;
authority which has been designated by one of the Contract-
ing Parties for this purpose and which receives a request for
assistance on the basis of this Protocol;
(b) whether goods imported into the territory of one of the Con-
tracting Parties have been properly exported from the terri-
tory of the other Party, specifying, where appropriate, the
(d) ‘personal data’ shall mean all information relating to an iden-
customs procedure applied to the goods.
tified or identifiable individual.
(e) ‘operation in breach of customs legislation’ shall mean any
3. At the request of the applicant authority, the requested
violation or attempted violation of customs legislation.
authority shall, within the framework of its legal or regulatory
provisions, take the necessary steps to ensure surveillance of:
Article 2
Scope (a) natural or legal persons in respect of whom there are reason-
able grounds for believing that they are engaging in or have
engaged in operations which contravene customs legislation;
1. The Contracting Parties shall assist each other, in the areas
within their competence, in the manner and under the conditions
laid down in this Protocol, to ensure the correct application of the
(b) places where stocks of goods have been or may be assembled
customs legislation, in particular in order to prevent, investigate
in such a way that there are reasonable grounds for believing
and combat operations in breach of that legislation.
that these goods are intended to be used in operations in
breach of customs legislation;
2. Assistance in customs matters, as provided for in this Pro-
tocol, shall apply to any administrative authority of the Contract-
ing Parties which is competent for the application of this Protocol. (c) goods that are or may be transported in such a way that there
It shall not prejudice the rules governing mutual assistance in are reasonable grounds for believing that they are intended to
criminal matters. Nor shall it cover information obtained under be used in operations in breach of customs legislation;
powers exercised at the request of a judicial authority, except
where communication of such information is authorised by that
authority.
(d) means of transport that are or may be used in such a way that
there are reasonable grounds for believing that they are
3. Assistance to recover duties, taxes or fines is not covered by intended to be used in operations in breach of customs
this Protocol. legislation.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/215
Article 4 Article 6
Spontaneous assistance Form and substance of requests for assistance
The Contracting Parties shall assist each other, at their own ini- 1. Requests pursuant to this Protocol shall be made in writ-
tiative and in accordance with their legal or regulatory provisions, ing. They shall be accompanied by the documents necessary to
if they consider that to be necessary for the correct application of enable compliance with the request. When required because of
customs legislation, particularly by providing information the urgency of the situation, oral requests may be accepted, but
obtained pertaining to: must be confirmed in writing immediately.
— activities which are or appear to be operations in breach of 2. Requests pursuant to paragraph 1 shall include the follow-
customs legislation and which may be of interest to another ing information:
Contracting Party;
(a) the applicant authority;
— new means or methods employed in carrying out operations
in breach of customs legislation;
(b) the measure requested;
— goods known to be subject to operations in breach of cus-
toms legislation; (c) the object of and the reason for the request;
(d) the legal or regulatory provisions and other legal elements
— natural or legal persons in respect of whom there are reason-
involved;
able grounds for believing that they are or have been involved
in operations in breach of customs legislation;
(e) indications as exact and comprehensive as possible on the
natural or legal persons who are the target of the
— means of transport for which there are reasonable grounds
investigations;
for believing that they have been, are or might be used in
operations in breach of customs legislation.
(f) a summary of the relevant facts and of the enquiries already
carried out.
Article 5
Delivery/notification
3. Requests shall be submitted in an official language of the
requested authority or in a language acceptable to that author-
ity. This requirement shall not apply to any documents that
At the request of the applicant authority, the requested authority accompany the request under paragraph 1.
shall, in accordance with legal or regulatory provisions applicable
to the latter, take all necessary measures to:
4. If a request does not meet the formal requirements set out
above, its correction or completion may be requested; in the
— deliver any documents, meantime precautionary measures may be ordered.
or
Article 7
Execution of requests
— notify any decisions
1. In order to comply with a request for assistance, the
requested authority shall proceed, within the limits of its compe-
emanating from the applicant authority and falling within the
tence and available resources, as though it were acting on its own
scope of this Protocol, to an addressee residing or established in
account or at the request of other authorities of that same Con-
the territory of the requested authority.
tracting Party, by supplying information already possessed, by
carrying out appropriate enquiries or by arranging for them to be
carried out. This provision shall also apply to any other authority
Requests for delivery of documents and notification of decisions to which the request has been addressed by the requested author-
shall be made in writing in an official language of the requested ity in application of this Protocol when the latter cannot act on
authority or in a language acceptable to that authority. its own.L 265/216 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
2. Requests for assistance shall be executed in accordance with 2. Assistance may be postponed by the requested authority on
the legal or regulatory provisions of the requested Contracting the ground that it will interfere with an ongoing investigation,
Party. prosecution or proceeding. In such a case, the requested author-
ity shall consult with the applicant authority to determine if assis-
tance can be given subject to such terms or conditions as the
3. Duly authorised officials of one of the Contracting Parties requested authority may require.
may, with the agreement of the other Party involved and subject
to the conditions laid down by the latter, be present to obtain in
the offices of the requested authority or any other authority con-
cerned in accordance with paragraph 1, information relating to
activities that are or may be operations in breach of customs leg-
islation which the applicant authority needs for the purposes of 3. Where the applicant authority seeks assistance which it
this Protocol. would itself be unable to provide if so requested, it shall draw
attention to that fact in its request. It shall then be for the
requested authority to decide how to respond to such a request.
4. Duly authorised officials of a Contracting Party may, with
the agreement of the other Contracting Party involved and within
the conditions laid down by the latter, be present at enquiries car-
ried out in the latter’s territory.
4. For the cases referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the decision
of the requested authority and the reasons for it must be commu-
Article 8
nicated to the applicant authority without delay.
Form in which information is to be communicated
1. The requested authority shall communicate the results of
enquiries to the applicant authority in writing together with all
relevant documents, certified copies and other items.
Article 10
Exchange of information and confidentiality
2. This information may be supplied in computerised form.
3. Original documents shall be transmitted only upon request
in cases where certified copies would be insufficient. These origi-
nals shall be returned at the earliest opportunity.
1. Any information communicated in whatsoever form pur-
suant to this Protocol shall be of a confidential or restricted nature,
depending on the rules applicable in each of the Contracting Par-
Article 9 ties. It shall be covered by the obligation of official secrecy and
shall enjoy the protection extended to similar information under
Exceptions to the obligation to provide assistance
the relevant laws of the Contracting Party that received it and the
corresponding provisions applying to the Community authorities.
1. Assistance may be refused or may be subject to the satisfac-
tion of certain conditions or requirements, in cases where a Party
is of the opinion that assistance under this Protocol would:
2. Personal data may be exchanged only where the Contract-
(a) be likely to prejudice Algeria’s sovereignty or that of a Mem-
ing Party which may receive them undertakes to protect such data
ber State of the Community whose assistance has been
in at least an equivalent way to the one applicable to that particu-
requested pursuant to this Protocol;
lar case in the Contracting Party that may supply them. To that
end, the Contracting Parties shall inform each other of their appli-
cable rules, including, where appropriate, legal provisions in force
or
in the Member States of the Community.
(b) be likely to prejudice public policy, security or other essen-
tial interests, in particular in the cases referred to under
Article 10(2);
3. Information obtained shall be used solely for the purposes
or of this Protocol. Where one of the Contracting Parties wishes to
use such information for other purposes, it shall obtain the prior
written consent of the authority which provided the information.
(c) be likely to violate an industrial, commercial or professional Such use shall then be subject to any restrictions laid down by
secret. that authority.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/217
4. The use, in judicial or administrative proceedings instituted authorities of the Member States. They shall decide on all practi-
in respect of operations in breach of customs legislation, of infor- cal measures and arrangements necessary for its application, tak-
mation obtained under this Protocol is considered to be for the ing into consideration rules in the field of data protection in
purposes of this Protocol. Therefore, the Contracting Parties may, particular. They may recommend to the competent bodies amend-
in their records of evidence, reports and testimonies and in pro- ments which they consider should be made to this Protocol.
ceedings and charges brought before the courts, use as evidence
information obtained and documents consulted in accordance 2. The Contracting Parties shall consult each other and keep
with the provisions of this Protocol. The competent authority each other informed of the detailed rules of implementation
which supplied that information or gave access to those docu- which are adopted in accordance with the provisions of this
ments shall be notified of such use. Protocol.
Article 14
Article 11
Other agreements
Experts and witnesses
1. Taking into account the respective competencies of the
An official of a requested authority may be authorised to appear,
European Community and the Member States, the provisions of
within the limitations of the authorisation granted, as an expert
this Protocol shall:
or witness in judicial or administrative proceedings regarding the
matters covered by this Protocol, and produce such items, docu-
— not affect the obligations of the Contracting Parties under any
ments or certified copies thereof, as may be needed for the pro-
other international agreement or convention;
ceedings. The request for appearance must indicate specifically
before which judicial or administrative authority such an official
— be deemed complementary with agreements on mutual assis-
will have to appear, on what matters and by virtue of what title
tance which have been or may be concluded between indi-
or qualification he will be questioned.
vidual Member States and Algeria;
— not affect the Community provisions governing the commu-
Article 12
nication between the competent services of the Commission
Assistance expenses of the European Communities and the customs authorities of
the Member States of any information obtained in the
The Contracting Parties shall waive all claims on each other for domains covered by this Protocol which could be of interest
the reimbursement of expenses incurred pursuant to this Proto- to the Community.
col except, as appropriate, for expenses relating to experts and
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, the provi-
witnesses and to interpreters and translators who are not public
sions of this Protocol shall take precedence over the provisions of
service employees.
any bilateral agreement on mutual assistance which has been or
may be concluded between individual Member States and Algeria
Article 13 insofar as the provisions of the latter are incompatible with those
of this Protocol.
Implementation
3. In respect of questions relating to the application of this
1. The implementation of this Protocol shall be entrusted on Protocol, the Contracting Parties shall consult each other to
the one hand to the customs authorities of Algeria and on the resolve the matter in the framework of the Cooperation Commit-
other hand to the competent services of the Commission of the tee set up under Article 41 of Protocol 6 to the Association
European Communities and, where appropriate, the customs Agreement.L 265/218 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
FINAL ACT10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/219
The Plenipotentiaries of:
THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM,
THE KINGDOM OF DENMARK,
THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY,
THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC,
THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN,
THE FRENCH REPUBLIC,
IRELAND,
THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC,
THE GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG,
THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS,
THE REPUBLIC OF AUSTRIA,
THE PORTUGUESE REPUBLIC,
THE REPUBLIC OF FINLAND,
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN,
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND,
Contracting Parties to the Treaty establishing the European Community, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Mem-
ber States’, and
THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred to as ‘the Community’,
of the one part,
and the Plenipotentiaries of THE PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA, hereinafter referred to as
‘Algeria’,
of the other part,
meeting in Valencia on 22 April 2002 for the signature of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an
Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the People’s Demo-
cratic Republic of Algeria, of the other part, hereinafter referred to as ‘the Agreement’,
HAVE AT THE TIME OF SIGNATURE ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING TEXTS:
the Agreement,
the Annexes thereto, namely 1 to 6:
ANNEX 1 List of agricultural and processed agricultural products falling within HS Chapters 25 to 97
referred to in Articles 7 and 14
ANNEX 2 List of products referred to in Article 9(1)
ANNEX 3 List of products referred to in Article 9(2)
ANNEX 4 List of products referred to in Article 17(4)
ANNEX 5 Implementing rules for Article 41
ANNEX 6 Intellectual, industrial and commercial propertyL 265/220 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
and Protocols Nos 1 to 7, namely:
Protocol No 1 on the arrangements applying to imports into the Community of agricultural products origi-
nating in Algeria
Protocol No 2 on the arrangements applying to imports into Algeria of agricultural products originating in
the Community
Protocol No 3 on the arrangements applying to imports into the Community of fishery products originat-
ing in Algeria
Protocol No 4 on the arrangements applying to imports into Algeria of fishery products originating in the
Community
Protocol No 5 on commercial trade in processed agricultural products between Algeria and the Community
Protocol No 6 concerning the definition of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation
Protocol No 7 on mutual administrative assistance in the field of customs
The Plenipotentiaries of the Member States of the Community and the Plenipotentiaries of Algeria have also
adopted the following Declarations attached to this Final Act:
JOINT DECLARATIONS
Joint Declaration relating to Article 44 of the Agreement
Joint Declaration on human exchanges
Joint Declaration relating to Article 84 of the Agreement
Joint Declaration relating to Article 104 of the Agreement
Joint Declaration relating to Article 110 of the Agreement
DECLARATIONS BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
Declaration by the European Community on Turkey
Declaration by the European Community on the accession of Algeria to the WTO
Declaration by the European Community relating to Article 41 of the Agreement
Declaration by the European Community relating to the first indent of Article 84(1) of the Agreement
Declaration by the European Community relating to Article 88 of the Agreement (racism and xenophobia)
DECLARATIONS BY ALGERIA
Declaration by Algeria relating to Article 9 of the Agreement
Declaration by Algeria on customs union between the European Community and Turkey
Declaration by Algeria relating to Article 41 of the Agreement
Declaration by Algeria relating to Article 91 of the Agreement10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/221
Hecho en Valencia, el veintidós de abril del dos mil dos.
Udfærdiget i Valencia den toogtyvende april to tusind og to.
Geschehen zu Valencia am zweiundzwanzigsten April zweitausendundzwei.
Έγινε στη Βαλένθια, στις εΐκοσι δύο Απριλΐον δύο χιλιάδες δύο.
Done at Valencia on the twenty-second day of April in the year two thousand and two.
Fait à Valence, le vingt-deux avril deux mille deux.
Fatto a Valenza, addi’ ventidue aprile duemiladue.
Gedaan te Valencia, de tweeëntwintigste april tweeduizendtwee.
Feito em Valência, em vinte e dois de Abril de dois mil e dois.
Tehty Valenciassa kahdentenakymmenentenätoisenä päivänä huhtikuuta vuonna kaksituhattakaksi.
Som skedde i Valencia den tjugoandra april tjugohundratvå.L 265/222 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Pour le Royaume de Belgique
Voor het Koninkrijk België
Für das Königreich Belgien
Cette signature engage également la Communauté française, la Communauté flamande, la Communauté ger-
manophone, la Région wallonne, la Région flamande et la Région de Bruxelles-Capitale.
Deze handtekening verbindt eveneens de Vlaamse Gemeenschap, de Franse Gemeenschap, de Duitstalige
Gemeenschap, het Vlaamse Gewest, het Waalse Gewest en het Brussels Hoofdstedelijk Gewest.
Diese Unterschrift verbindet zugleich die Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft, die Flämische Gemeinschaft, die
Französische Gemeinschaft, die Wallonische Region, die Flämische Region und die Region Brüssel-Hauptstadt.
På Kongeriget Danmarks vegne
Für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland
Για την Eλληνική Δημoκρατία
Por el Reino de España10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/223
Pour la République française
Thar cheann Na hÉireann
For Ireland
Per la Repubblica italiana
Pour le Grand-Duché de Luxembourg
Voor het Koninkrijk der NederlandenL 265/224 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
Für die Republik Österreich
Pela República Portuguesa
Suomen tasavallan puolesta
För Republiken Finland
För Konungariket Sverige
For the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/225
Por la Comunidad Europea
For Det Europæiske Fællesskab
Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft
Για την Eυρωπαϊκή Koινότητα
For the European Community
Pour la Communauté européenne
Per la Comunità europea
Voor de Europese Gemeenschap
Pela Comunidade Europeia
Euroopan yhteisön puolesta
På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnarL 265/226 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
JOINT DECLARATIONS
JOINT DECLARATION RELATING TO ARTICLE 44 OF THE AGREEMENT,
Under the Agreement, the Parties agree that intellectual, industrial and commercial property comprises, in par-
ticular, copyright, including copyright in computer programs, and neighbouring rights, database rights, com-
mercial trademarks and geographical descriptions including designation of origin, industrial designs and
models, patents, configuration plans (topographies) of integrated circuits, protection of undisclosed informa-
tion and protection against unfair competition in accordance with Article 10(a) of the Paris Convention for
the Protection of Industrial Property (1967 Stockholm Act) and the protection of confidential information con-
cerning ‘know-how’.
JOINT DECLARATION ON HUMAN EXCHANGES
The Parties will examine the desirability of negotiating agreements on sending Algerian workers to take up tem-
porary work.
JOINT DECLARATION RELATING TO ARTICLE 84 OF THE AGREEMENT,
The Parties declare that the term ‘nationals of other countries arriving in their territory direct from the terri-
tory of the other’ will be defined in the context of the agreements referred to in Article 84(2).
JOINT DECLARATION RELATING TO ARTICLE 104 OF THE AGREEMENT
1. The Parties agree, for the purpose of the correct interpretation and practical application of this Agreement,
that the term ‘cases of special urgency’ in Article 104 means a case of the material breach of the Agreement
by one of the Parties. A material breach of the Agreement consists in:
— repudiation of the Agreement not sanctioned by the general rules of international law,
— violation of the essential elements of the Agreement agreed to in Article 2.
2. The Parties agree that the ‘appropriate measures’ referred to in Article 104 of the Agreement are measures
taken in accordance with international law. If a Party takes a measure in a case of special urgency as pro-
vided for under Article 104, the other Party may avail itself of the procedure relating to settlement of
disputes.
JOINT DECLARATION RELATING TO ARTICLE 110 OF THE AGREEMENT
The advantages which Algeria derives from the arrangements granted to it by France under the Protocol on
goods originating in and coming from certain countries and enjoying special treatment when imported into a
Member State, annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community, have been taken into account in
this Agreement. As a result, these special arrangements must be considered repealed from the date on which
the Agreement enters into force.10.10.2005 EN Official Journal of the European Union L 265/227
DECLARATIONS BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY ON TURKEY
The Community recalls that in accordance with the Customs Union in force between the Community and Tur-
key, the latter has the obligation, in relation to countries which are not members of the Community, to align
itself on the Common Customs Tariff and, progressively, on the preferential customs regime of the Commu-
nity, taking the necessary measures and negotiating agreements on mutually advantageous basis with the coun-
tries concerned. Consequently, the Community invites Algeria to enter into negotiations with Turkey as soon
as possible.
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY ON THE ACCESSION OF ALGERIA TO THE WTO
The European Community and its Member States state their support for Algeria’s rapid accession to the WTO
and agree to provide any assistance necessary to this end.
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY RELATING TO ARTICLE 41 OF THE AGREEMENT
The Community declares that, in interpreting Article 41(1) of the Agreement, it will evaluate any practice con-
trary to that Article on the basis of the criteria resulting from the rules contained in Articles 81 and 82 of the
Treaty establishing the European Community, including secondary legislation.
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY RELATING TO THE FIRST INDENT OF ARTICLE 84(1) OF THE
AGREEMENT
As regards the Member States of the European Union, the obligations set out in the first indent of Article 84(1)
of this Agreement apply only to those persons who are to be considered their nationals for Community
purposes.
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY RELATING TO ARTICLE 88 OF THE AGREEMENT (RACISM
AND XENOPHOBIA)
The provisions of Article 88 apply without prejudice to the provisions and conditions relating to the admis-
sion and residence of nationals of other countries and stateless persons on the territory of the Member States
of the European Union or to any treatment associated with the legal status of the third-country nationals and
stateless persons concerned.L 265/228 EN Official Journal of the European Union 10.10.2005
DECLARATIONS BY ALGERIA
DECLARATION BY ALGERIA RELATING TO ARTICLE 9 OF THE AGREEMENT
Algeria considers one of the essential objectives of the Association Agreement to be an increase in the flow of
European direct investment in Algeria. It invites the Community and its Member States to support the prac-
tical realisation of this objective, in particular in the context of trade liberalisation and the dismantling of tariff
barriers. The Association Council will examine the question if the need arises.
DECLARATION BY ALGERIA ON CUSTOMS UNION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AND TURKEY
Algeria takes note of the Declaration by the European Community on Turkey. While observing that this dec-
laration arises from the existence of customs union between those parties, Algeria will consider this matter
when the time comes.
DECLARATION BY ALGERIA RELATING TO ARTICLE 41 OF THE AGREEMENT
In applying its law on competition, Algeria will bear in mind the competition policy guidelines developed
within the European Union.
DECLARATION BY ALGERIA RELATING TO ARTICLE 91 OF THE AGREEMENT
Algeria considers that suspending the principle of banking secrecy is an essential factor in combating
corruption.