   FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA  AND  THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS    The Governments of the Republic of Korea, Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,   RECALLING the decision made at the Korea-ASEAN Summit held on 30 November 2004 at Vientiane, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, by the Joint Declaration on Comprehensive Cooperation Partnership between Korea and ASEAN, to establish a Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area at an earliest stage with special and differential treatment and additional flexibility for the new ASEAN Member Countries of the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;   DESIRING to adopt a Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among them, that will further promote growth and development, increase the living standard of the people throughout the region and provide further dynamic benefits to the region in the long term;  BEING confident that the establishment of the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area will be a natural extension of their existing relations as well as a stepping stone to elevate their relationship to a higher and more comprehensive level;  REAFFIRMING  the shared belief that the arrangement for the creation of the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area should be based on the agreed principles of comprehensiveness in the liberalisation process, meaningful and substantial liberalisation, enhancement of mutual benefits, and consistency with WTO rules and disciplines;  BUILDING on their respective rights and obligations under the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation and the other agreements negotiated thereunder and other multilateral and bilateral instruments of cooperation to which they are parties;   RECOGNISING that the removal of obstacles to trade through the creation of the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area will contribute to the harmonious development and 
expansion of world trade and provide a catalyst to broader international cooperation, in particular within East Asia;  RECOGNISING the importance of capacity building through human resource development to face challenges of globalisation; and  RECOGNISING the different stages of economic development among the ASEAN Member Countries and the need for flexibility to be given to the new ASEAN Member Countries, in particular the need to facilitate their increasing participation in the economic cooperation of the Parties and the expansion of their exports, including, inter alia, through the strengthening of their domestic capacity, efficiency and competitiveness,  HAVE AGREED as follows:   CHAPTER 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS   Article 1.1 Objectives  The objectives of this Framework Agreement are to:  (a) strengthen and enhance economic, trade and investment cooperation among the Parties;  (b) progressively liberalise and promote trade in goods and services as well as create a transparent, liberal and facilitative investment regime;  (c) explore new areas and develop appropriate measures for closer economic cooperation and integration;  (d) facilitate the more effective economic integration of the new ASEAN Member Countries and bridge the development gap among the Parties; and  (e) establish a cooperative framework for further strengthening the economic relations among the Parties.   Article 1.2 Definitions  For the purposes of this Framework Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:  Korea means the Republic of Korea; 
 Korea + AEM means the Minister for Trade of Korea and the Economic Ministers of the ASEAN Member Countries;  ASEAN means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations which comprises of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;  Korea-ASEAN FTA means the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area established by this Framework Agreement and other relevant agreements stipulated in paragraph 1 of Article 1.4;  ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam collectively;  ASEAN Member Country means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of Vietnam individually;   Framework Agreement means this Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries;  GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services, which is a part of the WTO Agreement;  GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, which is a part of the WTO Agreement;  Implementing Committee means the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3;  New ASEAN Member Countries means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;  Normal Track means a list of tariff lines of which applied MFN tariff rates shall be gradually reduced and eliminated in accordance with the modality set out in Annex 1 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods under this Framework Agreement;   Parties means Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries collectively;  Party means Korea or an ASEAN Member Country;  
WTO means the World Trade Organisation; and  WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation, done on 15 April 1994 and the other agreements negotiated thereunder.   Article 1.3 Measures for Comprehensive Economic Partnership  The Parties shall establish, consistent with Article XXIV of GATT 1994 and Article V of GATS, a Korea-ASEAN FTA and strengthen and enhance economic cooperation through the following:  (a) progressive elimination of tariffs and non-tariff barriers in substantially all trade in goods;  (b) progressive liberalisation of trade in services with substantial sectoral coverage;  (c) establishment of an open and competitive investment regime that facilitates and promotes investment among the Parties;  (d) provision of special and differential treatment to the ASEAN Member Countries and additional flexibility to the new ASEAN Member Countries as agreed in the  Joint Declaration on Comprehensive Cooperation Partnership between Korea and ASEAN  and the core elements attached thereto;  (e) provision of flexibility to the Parties in the Korea-ASEAN FTA negotiations to address their sensitive areas in the goods, services and investment sectors with such flexibility to be negotiated and mutually agreed based on the principle of reciprocity and mutual benefits;  (f) establishment of effective trade and investment facilitation measures;  (g) exploration of the ways and means to expand their economic partnership into new areas and expansion of economic cooperation in areas as may be agreed among the Parties that will complement the deepening of trade and investment link among the Parties; and  (h) establishment of appropriate procedures and mechanisms for the purposes of effective implementation of this Framework Agreement.   Article 1.4  Legal Coverage and Relations to Other Agreements  1. The following agreements shall form part of legal instruments establishing the 
Korea-ASEAN FTA upon their respective entry into force:  (a) this Framework Agreement (including the Annex on Economic Cooperation);  (b) the Agreement on Trade in Goods under this Framework Agreement as provided for in Article 2.1;  (c) an agreement on trade in services to be concluded in accordance with Article 2.2;  (d) an agreement on investment to be concluded in accordance with Article 2.3;  (e) the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under this Framework Agreement as provided for in Article 5.1; and  (f) any other agreements that may be mutually agreed by consensus and concluded by the Parties in the context of the Korea-ASEAN FTA.  2. Except as otherwise provided in this Framework Agreement, this Framework Agreement or any action taken under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of a Party under the existing agreements to which it is a party.  3. Nothing in this Framework Agreement shall prevent any individual ASEAN Member Country from entering into any bilateral or plurilateral agreement with Korea and/or any other ASEAN Member Countries relating to trade in goods, trade in services, investment, and/or other areas of economic cooperation.  The provisions of this Framework Agreement shall not apply to any such bilateral or plurilateral agreement.    CHAPTER 2 LIBERALISATION   Article 2.1 Trade in Goods  1. The Parties shall progressively reduce and eliminate duties and other restrictive regulations of commerce (except, where necessary, those permitted under Article XXIV(8)(b) of GATT 1994) on substantially all trade in goods among the Parties, in accordance with the provisions, schedules and programme for the Normal Track in the Agreement on Trade in Goods under this Framework Agreement.   2. The Agreement on Trade in Goods under this Framework Agreement shall include, but not limited to:  (a) detailed rules governing the progressive tariff reduction and/or 
elimination programme as well as other related matters;  (b) rules of origin;  (c) modification of commitments;  (d) non-tariff measures, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, and technical barriers to trade;  (e) safeguards measures; and  (f) WTO disciplines and reduction and elimination of non-tariff barriers.   Article 2.2 Trade in Services  1. The Parties shall progressively liberalise trade in services among the Parties with substantial sectoral coverage in conformity with Article V of GATS.  2. For this purpose, the Parties shall enter into negotiations on the progressive liberalisation of trade in services.  Such liberalisation shall be directed to:  (a) provision for the absence or elimination of substantially all discrimination among the Parties only in the sectors covered under paragraph 1, through:  (i) elimination of existing discriminatory measures; and/or  (ii) prohibition of new or more discriminatory measures with  respect to trade in services among the Parties,  either at the entry into force of the agreement referred to in paragraph 3 or on the basis of an agreed time-frame, except for measures permitted under Articles XI, XII, XIV, XIVbis of GATS;   (b) expansion in the depth and scope of liberalisation of trade in services beyond those undertaken by the Parties under GATS; and  (c) enhanced cooperation in services among the Parties in order to improve efficiency and competitiveness, as well as to diversify the supply and distribution of services of the respective service suppliers of the Parties.  3. The Parties shall begin negotiations on an agreement on trade in services at the beginning of 2006 with a goal of concluding the negotiations not later than 31 December 2006.  
 Article 2.3 Investment  1. The Parties shall create a liberal, facilitative, transparent and competitive investment regime with business-friendly environment.   2. For this purpose, the Parties shall enter into negotiations on the liberalisation of investment regime.  Such negotiations shall be directed to:  (a) progressive liberalisation of the investment regime;  (b) strengthening of cooperation in investment, facilitation of investment and improvement of transparency of investment rules and regulations; and  (c) provision of the protection under the investment regime.  3. The Parties shall begin negotiations on an agreement on investment at the beginning of 2006 with a goal of concluding the negotiations not later than 31 December 2006.   Article 2.4 Most-Favoured Nation Treatment  Korea shall accord to all the ASEAN Member Countries which are not WTO members the Most-Favoured Nation Treatment consistent with the WTO rules and disciplines upon the entry into force of this Framework Agreement.    CHAPTER 3 ECONOMIC COOPERATION    Article 3.1 Scope and Implementation of Cooperation  1. The Parties, on the basis of mutual benefits, shall explore and undertake cooperation projects in the following areas:  (a) customs procedures;  (b) trade and investment promotion;   (c) small and medium enterprises;   (d) human resource management and development;   
(e) tourism;   (f) science and technology;   (g) financial services;   (h) information and communication technology;   (i) agriculture, fisheries, livestock, plantation commodities and forestry;   (j) intellectual property;   (k) environmental industry;   (l) broadcasting;   (m) construction technology;   (n) standards and conformity assessment and sanitary and phytosanitary measures;   (o) mining;   (p) energy;   (q) natural resources;   (r) shipbuilding and maritime transport; and    (s) film.  2. The Parties shall undertake economic cooperation projects at mutually agreed time periods, when feasible.  These projects shall be monitored by the Implementing Committee for their effective implementation.   3. Details of such cooperation are specified in the Annex on Economic Cooperation.   Article 3.2 Capacity Building Programmes and Technical Assistance  1. The Parties, recognising that capacity building programmes and technical assistance are important, particularly for the new ASEAN Member Countries, in order to expand their trade and investment with Korea, shall implement such programmes on a mutually agreed basis.  2. The Parties shall strengthen cooperation and support for the realisation of 
ASEAN integration objectives by implementing projects furthering the Bali Concord II, the Initiative for ASEAN Integration (IAI), as well as the Vientiane Action Programme (VAP), including providing technical assistance and capacity building for the new ASEAN Member Countries based on the experiences and expertise of Korea in development.  3. The Parties shall strengthen ASEAN’s integration efforts in narrowing the development gaps among the ASEAN Member Countries and between Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries by enhancing regional and sub-regional development.  4. The Parties, recognising the development gaps among the ASEAN Member Countries and between Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries, shall enhance regional and sub-regional development, through cooperation initiatives including:   (a) the Mekong Sub-region;  (b) the Ayeawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS);  (c) the Brunei Darussalam-Indonesia-Malaysia-Philippines East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA);  (d) the growth triangles such as the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand (IMT-GT) and the Indonesia-Malaysia-Singapore (IMS-GT);  (e) the Greater Mekong Sub-Region (GMS) programme;   (f) the Second East-West Economic Corridor;   (g) the ASEAN Mekong Basin Development Corporation (AMBDC);   (h) the Singapore-Kunming Rail Link (SKRL) project; and  (i) sharing experiences with the Mekong River Commission (MRC) in formulating and implementing priority programmes in the Mekong River Basin.    CHAPTER 4 OTHER AREAS   Article 4.1 Expansion of Economic Partnership into New Areas  With the aim of achieving the comprehensive Korea-ASEAN FTA, the Parties shall explore ways and means to expand their economic partnership into new areas where the Parties have mutual interests, as may be agreed by the Parties. 
CHAPTER 5 FINAL PROVISIONS   Article 5.1 Dispute Settlement  1. Any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Framework Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under this Framework Agreement.  2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, any disputes arising from paragraph 3 of Article 2.2 (Trade in Services), paragraph 3 of Article 2.3 (Investment), Chapters 3 (Economic Cooperation) and 4 (Other Areas), and the Annex on Economic Cooperation shall not be subject to the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under this Framework Agreement.   Article 5.2 Institutional Arrangements for the Negotiations  1. There shall be established a Korea-ASEAN Trade Negotiating Committee to carry out negotiations set out in this Framework Agreement.   2. The Korea-ASEAN Trade Negotiating Committee may establish any working group as may be necessary to assist it in undertaking negotiations on specific areas in the Korea-ASEAN FTA.   3. Commencing immediately at the beginning of the negotiations envisaged in this Framework Agreement and continuing until the formal completion of such negotiations by 31 December 2006, the Parties shall endeavour not to take any trade restrictive or distorting measures in such a manner as to affect negatively the negotiating position of any other Party.   Article 5.3 Implementation of the Framework Agreement   1. The Korea + AEM shall have the ultimate authority concerning all matters relating to the implementation of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement.  An Implementing Committee, which is hereby established to be composed of the senior economic officials of the Parties or their designees, shall convene as appropriate to discharge such functions as provided for in paragraph 2 under the supervision and guidance of the Korea + AEM.   2. The Parties, through the Implementing Committee, shall: 
 (a) coordinate, supervise and oversee the implementation and appropriate application of the provisions of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement;   (b) review the implementation of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement;   (c) supervise the work of the committees and working groups established under this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement; and   (d) consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement, or that is entrusted to the Implementing Committee by the Parties.   3. In the fulfilment of its functions, the Implementing Committee may:   (a) establish and delegate responsibilities to ad hoc or standing committees, working groups or expert groups and assign them with tasks on specific matters; and  (b) take such other action in the exercise of its functions, as the Parties may agree.   4. The Implementing Committee shall keep the Korea + AEM informed of its activities on a regular basis.    5. The Implementing Committee shall establish its rules and procedures, which shall be approved by the Korea + AEM.   6. The Implementing Committee shall convene within one year of the date of entry into force of this Framework Agreement and then annually or otherwise as appropriate.   Article 5.4 Secretariat and Contact Points  1. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Korea for Korea and the ASEAN Secretariat for the ASEAN Member Countries shall jointly provide the necessary secretariat support for the purposes of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement.  The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Korea and the ASEAN Secretariat shall monitor and report to the Implementing Committee on the 
implementation of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement.   2. All official communications or notifications among the Parties for the purposes of the implementation of this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement shall be made in the English language and through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Korea and the ASEAN Secretariat as appropriate.  3. The Parties shall designate their respective contact point to facilitate all other communications with one another on any matter covered by this Framework Agreement and any other agreements concluded or to be concluded in accordance with this Framework Agreement.  At the request of a Party, the contact point of the requested Party shall identify the office or official responsible for the matter and assist in facilitating communications with the requesting Party.     Article 5.5 Annexes and Future Legal Instruments  1. The Annex on Economic Cooperation shall form an integral part of this Framework Agreement.  2. The Parties may adopt legal instruments in the future pursuant to the provisions of this Framework Agreement.  Upon their respective entry into force, such instruments shall form part of this Framework Agreement.   Article 5.6 Amendments  The provisions of this Framework Agreement may be modified through amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties.   Article 5.7 Depositary  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Framework Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to each ASEAN Member Country.   Article 5.8 Entry into Force  1. This Framework Agreement shall enter into force on 1 July 2006, provided that Korea and at least one ASEAN Member Country are among the Signatory Countries 
that have by then notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  In the event this Framework Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 2006, it shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which Korea and at least one ASEAN Member Country have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  2. A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Framework Agreement, notify all the other Parties in writing.  3. Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Framework Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Framework Agreement shall come into force for that Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its internal procedures.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia this thirteenth day of December 2005, in duplicate copies in the English language.    For the Government of the Republic of Korea:  ROH MOO-HYUN President  For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:  HAJI HASSANAL BOLKIAH Sultan of Brunei Darussalam  For the Royal Government of Cambodia:  SAMDECH HUN SEN Prime Minister  For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:  SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO President  For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:  BOUNNHANG VORACHITH Prime Minister  
For the Government of Malaysia:  ABDULLAH AHMAD BADAWI Prime Minister  For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:  SOE WIN Prime Minister  For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:  GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO President  For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:  LEE HSIEN LOONG Prime Minister  For the Government of Thailand:  THAKSIN SHINAWATRA Prime Minister  For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam:  PHAN VAN KHAI Prime Minister  
ANNEX   ECONOMIC COOPERATION   Article 1 Customs Procedures  The Parties, recognising that cooperation among authorities on customs matters is an important means of facilitating international trade, shall, subject to their respective domestic laws and consistent with their own policies and procedures:  (a) share expertise on ways to streamline and simplify customs procedures;  (b) exchange information on best practices relating to customs procedures, enforcement and risk management techniques with the exception of confidential information;  (c) facilitate cooperation and exchange of experiences in the application of information technology and improvement of monitoring and inspection systems in customs procedures; and  (d) ensure, as they deem fit, that their customs laws and regulations are published and publicly available, and their customs procedures, where necessary, are exchanged among customs contact points.    Article 2  Trade and Investment Promotion  1. The Parties shall cooperate in promoting trade and investment activities through government agencies and/or other bodies.    2. Such cooperation shall include:  (a) launching a feasibility study on the establishment of an Korea-ASEAN Centre based in Korea;  (b) organising trade and investment promotion activities, such as trade and investment missions, regular business seminars and fora, and database sharing through electronic linkages (electronic business-matching); and  (c) assisting the development of the legal system, especially for the new ASEAN Member Countries, through professional training programmes and joint seminars to disseminate knowledge and experiences in law practices, and conducting projects to improve trade and investment-related laws.   
Article 3  Small and Medium Enterprises  1. The Parties, recognising the fundamental role of small and medium enterprises (hereinafter referred to as “SMEs”) in maintaining the dynamism of their respective national economies, shall cooperate in promoting close cooperation among SMEs as well as the relevant agencies of the Parties.    2. Such cooperation shall include:   (a) establishing networking opportunities for SMEs of the Parties to facilitate collaboration and/or sharing of best practices, such as in the field of management skill development, technology transfers, product quality improvements, supply-chain linkages, information technology, access to financing as well as technical assistance;   (b) facilitating the investment flows by Korean SMEs in the ASEAN Member Countries, and vice versa; and  (c) encouraging their relevant agencies to discuss, cooperate and share information and experiences in the development of SMEs policy and programmes.   Article 4 Human Resource Management and Development  The Parties, recognising that sustainable economic growth and prosperity largely depend on people's knowledge and skills, shall:  (a) encourage exchanges of their scholars, teachers, students, members of educational institutions and other persons engaging in scientific or educational activities; and  (b) encourage their relevant agencies to discuss and cooperate in upgrading competency and skills of their workers.   Article 5 Tourism  The Parties, recognising that tourism will contribute to the enhancement of mutual understanding among the Parties and that tourism is an important industry for their economies, shall:  (a) explore the possibility of undertaking joint research on tourism development and promotion to increase inbound visitors to each Party, as well as consider setting up linkages and networks between the websites 
in Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries;   (b) encourage tourism agencies of the Parties to strengthen cooperation in tourism training and education, particularly in the Korean language and culture for tourist guides of the ASEAN Member Countries, to ensure high-quality services for Korean tourists in the territories of the ASEAN Member Countries;  (c) cooperate in joint campaigns to promote tourism in the territories of the Parties through workshops and seminars among tourism authorities and professional tourism agencies in the territories of the Parties;  (d) collaborate to promote the sustainable development of tourism in the territories of the Parties; and   (e) exchange information on relevant statistics, policies and laws in tourism and related sectors.   Article 6  Science and Technology  The Parties, recognising that science and technology will contribute to the continued expansion of their respective economies in the medium and long term, shall:  (a) explore establishment of training programmes and exchange of scientific and technology information;  (b) consider undertaking joint research and development projects, especially in high-end sciences in key technology areas such as nano-technology, material technology, electronic technology, space technology, biotechnology and technology management, and other forms of science and technology cooperation;   (c) encourage linkages between their research institutions; and  (d) encourage the mutually beneficial joint use of research and development facilities and scientific equipment.   Article 7  Financial Services  The Parties shall cooperate in the field of financial services with a view to:  (a) promoting regulatory cooperation and development, including exchange of information and experiences on market trends;  
(b) facilitating the development of financial markets and infrastructure, including capital markets;   (c) providing technical assistance for human resource and institutional capacity development and exchanging experiences in the area of risk management;   (d) assisting in mitigating the adverse implications of financial services liberalisation; and  (e) providing capacity building in developing the capital market.   Article 8 Information and Communication Technology  1. The Parties, recognising the rapid development, led by the private sector, of information and communication technology (hereinafter referred to as “ICT”) and of business practices concerning ICT-related services both in the domestic and international contexts, shall cooperate to promote the development of ICT and ICT-related services with a view to obtaining the maximum benefit of the use of ICT for the Parties.   2. The areas of cooperation shall include:   (a) promotion of electronic commerce;  (b) promotion of the use by consumers, the public sector and the private sector, of ICT-related services, including newly emerging services and next generation networks;   (c) human resource development relating to ICT;   (d) undertaking of joint research and development projects; and   (e) promotion of anti-SPAM efforts.  3. The forms of cooperation may include:  (a) exchanging information and expertise on ICT policies, creation of ICT-related services, provision of e-government services, content development, network security and protection of privacy;   (b) undertaking technical cooperation in areas such as network infrastructure, creative and multimedia industries and ICT infrastructure development;   (c) encouraging and facilitating investment by private and/or public enterprises in ICT industries in the territories of the Parties; and 
 (d) providing technical assistance in the development of ICT-related projects.   Article 9 Agriculture, Fisheries, Livestock, Plantation Commodities and Forestry  1. The Parties, recognising that there remain opportunities for collaboration and technical cooperation in agriculture, fisheries, livestock, plantation commodities and forestry, including the field of ecosystem agroforestry and ecotourism, shall establish cooperation for mutual benefits of the Parties.  2. The areas of cooperation shall include, but not limited to:   (a) information exchange;   (b) capacity building and human resource development;   (c) joint research and development; and   (d) technical assistance in sustainable development.  3. The forms of cooperation shall be:  (a) promoting exchange of information and sharing experiences related to the areas described in paragraph 1 including new technologies;  (b) promoting joint research projects;  (c) exchanging experts;  (d) providing technical assistance including post-harvest;  (e) conducting seminars, training and workshops;  (f) encouraging study visits to farms and related production centers;  (g) strengthening technology, capacity and know-how of laboratory; and  (h) cooperating in other fields as may be identified and mutually agreed upon by the Parties.   Article 10  Intellectual Property  1. The Parties, recognising the growing importance of intellectual property (hereinafter referred to as “IP”) as a factor of economic competitiveness in the 
knowledge-based economy, shall enhance their cooperation in the field of IP.   2. The cooperation shall include, but not limited to:  (a) exchanging information and sharing experiences on the creation and utilisation of IP;  (b) exchanging information, sharing experiences and encouraging training of each Party’s personnel in the field of IP;  (c) conducting international search and international preliminary examination under the Patent Cooperation Treaty administered by the World Intellectual Property Organisation subject to a Party’s membership;  (d) promoting education and awareness on protection of intellectual property rights;  (e) providing assistance in facilitating the enhancement and modernisation of IP databases including patents and trademarks in the territories of the ASEAN Member Countries; and  (f) strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation in the protection of IP.    Article 11  Environmental Industry  1. The Parties, recognising that economic development, social progress and environmental protection are key pillars of sustainable development, shall explore ways to promote closer cooperation among their respective interested government entities, industries, organisations and research institutions.  2. To this end, the Parties shall pursue the following environmental cooperation activities on a mutually agreed basis:  (a) cooperation in environmental technologies and policies, such as compressed natural gas technology and policy;   (b) cooperation in environmental capacity building of industries and exchanges of information and experiences of environmental industries;  (c) cooperation in exchanges and education of human resources related to the environment; and  (d) other forms of environmental cooperation as mutually agreed.   
 Article 12 Broadcasting  1. The Parties consider the significance of broadcasting in the digital economy as well as its role as an avenue for cultural exchanges across national boundaries, and recognise the advancement of broadcasting technology as both a challenge and an opportunity for the Parties to derive mutual benefits.  To this end, Korea and various ASEAN Member Countries, as may be interested, shall develop and promote cooperative activities in the field of broadcasting on a bilateral basis.  2. Subject to the Parties’ laws and regulations governing the broadcast sectors, the areas of cooperation shall include:   (a) exchanging information on statistics, as mutually agreed, policies and laws and regulations on broadcasting and related sectors;   (b) undertaking joint research and development of newly emerging broadcasting technologies;  (c) promoting exchanges aimed at educating and training of broadcasting related personnel; and  (d) encouraging mutual exchanges of re-transmission of broadcast as appropriate.    Article 13 Construction Technology  The Parties shall cooperate, where appropriate, in the following areas:   (a) manpower and construction development;   (b) construction technology;    (c) international project collaboration; and   (d) infrastructural construction design.   Article 14 Standards and Conformity Assessment and  Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  1. The Parties, recognising the important role of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures on industry, agriculture and plantation commodities in facilitating trade, shall cooperate in the areas such as: 
 (a) exchange of views and information on standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures in areas of mutual interests;  (b) exchange of laws and regulations on standards and conformity assessment procedures as mutually agreed;  (c) exchange of experts and staff in areas of mutual interests;  (d) explore possible mutual recognition arrangements and agreements to facilitate trade flows among the Parties;  (e) development and implementation of technical cooperation and capacity building programmes on standards, technical regulations, metrology and conformity assessment, which include, among others, seminars, training and training attachments, exchange of staff and regulatory dialogues on agreed areas;  (f) strengthening of cooperation among the Parties at relevant international and regional fora on standards and conformity assessment and promotion of the use of international standards and conformity assessment guidelines, as appropriate, as a basis for the development of national technical regulations;  (g) development of testing laboratories and accreditation network as well as testing programmes, as appropriate, among the Parties;  (h) exploration of technical assistance in the development of industrial standards in areas of mutual interests; and  (i) other areas of cooperation as may be identified and mutually agreed upon by the Parties.  2. Recognising the importance of sanitary and phytosanitary (hereinafter referred to as “SPS”) measures in minimising their negative effects on trade in agricultural, fishery, animal and food products, and plantation commodities, the Parties, on the basis of mutual benefits, shall cooperate in:  (a) exchange of information concerning SPS measures;  (b) exchange of information on any occurrences of SPS incidents;  (c) improvement of the distribution and packaging systems;  (d) human resource development in the concerned area that would be promoted, among others, by organising training and exchange of specialists;  
(e) development and promotion of new technologies; and  (f) other areas of cooperation as may be identified and mutually agreed upon by the Parties.   Article 15 Mining  The Parties, recognising that cooperation in the mining sector will contribute to the economic development, shall:  (a) explore possibilities for the joint development of energy and mineral resources and cooperate in the improvement of technology on exploration and extraction of energy and mineral deposits, mine waste disposal and rehabilitation of closed mines;  (b) encourage enhancement of trade and investment in the mining sector;  (c) cooperate in the promotion of environmentally sound and socially responsible mineral development practices in sustainable management and optimum utilisation of mineral resources;  (d) encourage exchange of information on issues related to the mining policy and technology;  (e) promote and develop business alliances between the private sectors; and  (f) conduct trainings, seminars, workshops and exchange of experts geared towards development and promotion of mining.    Article 16 Energy  The Parties, recognising that energy demand in their territories, shall expand in the future given the rapid pace of economic development, shall:  (a) exchange information on the improvement of efficiency in energy use;  (b) cooperate in the development and use of alternative and renewable energy sources such as, but not limited to, compressed natural gas technology and policy;  (c) cooperate in infrastructure development, resource development, investment promotion and application of new energy saving technologies;  
(d) encourage exchange of experts; and  (e) promote and develop business alliances between the private sectors.     Article 17 Natural Resources  The Parties, recognising that proper management and efficient utilisation of natural resources will contribute to the continued expansion of their respective economies, shall cooperate in:  (a) development and utilisation of appropriate mathematical models to simulate and predict groundwater containment and transport, assessment of risk posed by waste storage/disposal and agro-industrial activities on groundwater quality, and setting-up of groundwater protection zones;  (b) improvement of technology on exploration, extraction and utilisation of energy and mineral deposits, mine waste disposal and rehabilitation of closed mines;  (c) investment promotion activities; and   (d) comprehensive management of water resources, including ground and surface water, and the application of information technology in this area.   Article 18 Shipbuilding and Maritime Transport  1. Recognising the important role of maritime transport in trade and development, the Parties, through their relevant entities, shall cooperate in the areas of shipbuilding and maritime transport.   2. Such cooperative activities shall include:  (a) undertaking information exchange and sharing experiences; and  (b) promoting exchange of experts.   Article 19  Film  1. Recognising the potential of the film industry as means to promote understanding and cultural exchanges among the Parties and the rapid development of this industry in their respective economy, interested Parties, through their relevant entities, shall endeavour, subject to their respective laws and regulations, to promote 
cooperation in the areas of mutual interests.  2. The forms of cooperation shall be:   (a) exchange of experts on film;   (b) exchange of information; and   (c) cooperation in holding and participating in film festivals.  
   AGREEMENT ON DISPUTE SETTLEMENT MECHANISM UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT  ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION  AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA  AND  THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS    The Governments of the Republic of Korea, Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations signed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on the thirteenth day of December 2005; and   FURTHER RECALLING Article 5.1 of the Framework Agreement, which provides for the dispute settlement procedures and mechanism for the Framework Agreement and any other Agreement to be concluded thereunder,  HAVE AGREED as follows:    Article 1 Definitions  For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:  Korea means the Republic of Korea;  ASEAN means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations which comprises of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;  ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom 
ASEAN Member Country means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of Vietnam individually;   chair means the member of an arbitral panel who serves as the chair of the arbitral panel;  complaining party means any Party that requests consultations under paragraph 1 of Article 3;  covered agreements means:     (a) the Framework Agreement;     (b) the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement;    (c) this Agreement;   (d) any agreement to be concluded among the Parties pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Framework Agreement unless provided otherwise therein;  days means calendar days, including weekends and holidays;  Framework Agreement means the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries;  Parties means Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries collectively;  parties to a dispute, or parties to the dispute means both the complaining party and the party complained against;  Party means Korea or an ASEAN Member Country;   party complained against means any Party to which the request for consultations is made under paragraph 1 of Article 3;   third party means a Party, other than the parties to a dispute, that delivers a written notice in accordance with Article 7; and  WTO means the World Trade Organisation.      
Article 2 Coverage and Application  1. This Agreement shall apply with respect to the avoidance or settlement of all disputes arising between the Parties under the covered agreements.  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or any other covered agreement, this Agreement shall apply to all disputes between the Parties.  2. The rules and procedures of this Agreement shall apply subject to special or additional rules and procedures on dispute settlement, if any, contained in the other covered agreements.  To the extent that there is a conflict between the rules and procedures of this Agreement and such special or additional rules and procedures on dispute settlement contained in a covered agreement, the special or additional rules and procedures shall prevail.  In disputes involving rules and procedures under more than one covered agreement, if there is a conflict between special and additional rules and procedures of such covered agreements, the chair of the arbitral panel, in consultation with the parties to the dispute, shall determine the rules and procedures to be followed for that dispute within ten (10) days after a request by any party to the dispute.  3. The provisions of this Agreement may be invoked in respect of measures affecting the operation of any covered agreement taken within the territory of a Party by:   (a) central, regional or local governments and authorities; or  (b) non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities.  4. Subject to paragraph 5, nothing in this Agreement shall prejudice any right of the Parties to have recourse to dispute settlement procedures available under any other treaty to which they are parties.  5. Once dispute settlement proceedings have been initiated under this Agreement or under any other treaty to which the parties to a dispute are parties concerning a particular right or obligation of such Parties arising under the covered agreements or that other treaty, the forum selected by the complaining party shall be used to the exclusion of any other for such dispute.   6. For the purposes of paragraphs 4 and 5, the complaining party shall be deemed to have selected a forum when it has requested the establishment of, or referred a dispute to, a dispute settlement panel in accordance with this Agreement or any other treaty to which the parties to a dispute are parties.    Article 3 Consultations  1. A party complained against shall accord due consideration to and afford 
adequate opportunity for consultations regarding a request for consultations made by a complaining party with respect to any matter affecting the interpretation, implementation or application of any covered agreement, wherever the complaining party considers that:  (a) a measure of the party complained against is inconsistent with its obligations under the covered agreements; or  (b) the party complained against has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations under the covered agreements,  which results in nullification or impairment of any benefits accruing to the complaining party under the covered agreements or impediment of the attainment of any objective of the covered agreements.  2. Any request for consultations shall be submitted in writing, and include the specific measures at issue, and the factual and legal basis (including the provisions of any of the covered agreements alleged to have been breached and any other relevant provision) of the complaint.  The complaining party shall send the request to the party complained against and the rest of the Parties.  Upon receipt, the party complained against shall promptly acknowledge receipt of such request to the complaining party and the rest of the Parties at the same time.  3. If a request for consultations is made, the party complained against shall reply to the request within seven (7) days after the date of its receipt and shall enter into consultations in good faith within a period of not more than thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the request, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution.  If the party complained against does not respond within the aforesaid seven (7) days, or does not enter into consultations within the aforesaid thirty (30) days, then the complaining party may proceed directly to request for the establishment of an arbitral panel under Article 5.   4. The parties to a dispute shall make every effort to reach a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter through consultations under this Article.  To this end, the parties to the dispute shall:  (a) provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how the measure might affect the operation of the covered agreement; and  (b) treat as confidential any information exchanged in the course of consultations which the other party to the dispute has designated as confidential.  5. Consultations shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of any Party in any further proceedings under this Agreement or other proceedings before a forum selected by the Parties.  The parties to the dispute shall inform the rest of the Parties the outcome of the consultations.  
6. In cases of urgency, including those which concern perishable goods, the parties to the dispute shall enter into consultations within a period of no more than ten (10) days after the date of receipt by the party complained against of the request.  If the consultations have failed to settle the dispute within a period of twenty (20) days after the date of receipt by the party complained against of the request, the complaining party may proceed directly to request for the establishment of an arbitral panel under Article 5.  7. In cases of urgency, including those which concern perishable goods, the parties to the dispute and arbitral panels shall make every effort to accelerate the proceedings to the greatest extent possible.   Article 4 Good Offices, Conciliation and Mediation  1. Good offices, conciliation and mediation are procedures that are undertaken voluntarily if the parties to the dispute so agree.   2. Good offices, conciliation or mediation may be requested at any time by any party to a dispute.  They may begin at any time and be terminated by any party to a dispute at any time.  3. If the parties to a dispute agree, good offices, conciliation or mediation proceedings may continue before any person or body as may be agreed by the parties to the dispute while the dispute proceeds for resolution before an arbitral panel established under Article 5.  4. Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and mediation, and in particular, positions taken by the parties to a dispute during these proceedings, shall be confidential, and without prejudice to the rights of any Party in any further proceedings under this Agreement or other proceedings before a forum selected by the Parties.   Article 5 Establishment of Arbitral Panels  1. If the consultations under Article 3 fail to settle a dispute within sixty (60) days after the date of receipt of the request for consultations or within twenty (20) days after such date in cases of urgency including those which concern perishable goods, the complaining party may make a written request to the party complained against to establish an arbitral panel.  A copy of this request shall also be communicated to the rest of the Parties.  2. A request for the establishment of an arbitral panel shall give the reasons for the request, including the identification of:  (a) the specific measure at issue; and (b) the factual and legal basis (including the provisions of any of the covered 
agreements alleged to have been breached and any other relevant provisions) for the complaint sufficient to present the problem clearly.  3. Upon delivery of the request, an arbitral panel shall be established.  4. Unless otherwise agreed by the parties to the dispute, an arbitral panel shall be established and perform its functions in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and the Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral Panel Proceedings.  5. Where more than one complaining party requests the establishment of an arbitral panel related to the same matter, a single arbitral panel may, whenever feasible, be established by the parties to the dispute to examine the matter, taking into account their respective rights.  6. Where a single arbitral panel is established under paragraph 5, the arbitral panel shall organise its examination and present its findings to all the parties to the dispute in such manner that the rights which the parties to the dispute would have enjoyed had separate arbitral panels examined the same matter are in no way impaired.  If one of the parties to the dispute so requests, the arbitral panel may submit separate reports on the dispute concerned if the timeframe for writing the report so permits.  The written submissions by a party to the dispute shall be made available to the other parties to the dispute, and each party to the dispute shall have the right to be present when any of the other parties to the dispute presents its views to the arbitral panel.  7. Where more than one arbitral panel is established to examine the same matter, to the greatest extent possible, the same persons shall be appointed by the parties to the disputes to serve on each of the separate arbitral panels and the timetable for the proceedings of each separate arbitral panel shall be harmonised.   Article 6 Composition of Arbitral Panels  1. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or agreed by the parties to the dispute, an arbitral panel shall consist of three (3) members.   2. Each party to the dispute shall appoint one member of the arbitral panel within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the request under Article 5.  If any party to the dispute fails to appoint a member of the arbitral panel within such period, then the member of the arbitral panel appointed by the other party to the dispute shall act as the sole member of the arbitral panel, notwithstanding paragraph 1.   3. The parties to the dispute shall endeavour to agree on the third member who shall serve as the chair of the arbitral panel within thirty (30) days of the appointment of the second member.  If the parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the chair within this period, the chair shall be jointly appointed, by the members of the arbitral panel who have been appointed under paragraph 2, within a further period of thirty (30) days.  
If the members of the arbitral panel fail to appoint the chair within the aforesaid period, the chair shall be appointed at the request of the members of the arbitral panel by the Director-General of the WTO within thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the request.  In the event that the Director-General is a national of one of the parties to the dispute, the Deputy Director-General or the officer next in seniority who is not a national of any party to the dispute shall be requested to appoint the chair.  4. The date of establishment of the arbitral panel shall be the date on which the chair is appointed under paragraph 3 or, the 30th day after the date of receipt of the request under Article 5 where only a sole member of the arbitral panel is available.  5. If a member appointed under this Article resigns or becomes unable to act, a successor member shall be appointed in the same manner as prescribed for the appointment of the original member and the successor member shall have all the powers and duties of the original member.  The work of the arbitral panel shall be suspended until the successor member is appointed.   6. Any person appointed as a member of an arbitral panel shall have expertise or experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by the covered agreements or the resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements.  A member shall be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability, sound judgment and independence and shall conduct himself or herself on the same basis throughout the course of the arbitral panel proceedings.  If a party to the dispute believes that a member is in violation of the basis stated above, the parties to the dispute shall consult and if they agree, the member shall be removed and a new member shall be appointed in accordance with this Article.   Additionally, the chair shall not be a national of any party to the dispute and shall not have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of, nor be employed by, any party to the dispute nor have dealt with the referred matter in any capacity.   7. Where the original arbitral panel is required for a matter as provided in this Agreement but cannot hear the matter for any reason, a new arbitral panel shall be established in accordance with this Article.  The same timeframe which would have applied, had the original arbitral panel heard the matter, shall apply for the newly established arbitral panel.   Article 7 Third Parties  1. Any Party having a substantial interest in a dispute before an arbitral panel and having notified its interest in writing to the parties to such a dispute and the rest of the Parties, shall have an opportunity to make written submissions to the arbitral panel.  These submissions shall also be given to the parties to the dispute and may be reflected in the report of the arbitral panel.  2.  Third parties shall receive the submissions of the parties to the dispute at the first meeting of the arbitral panel. 
 3.  If a third party considers that a measure that is already the subject of an arbitral panel proceeding nullifies or impairs benefits accruing to it under the covered agreements, such Party may have recourse to normal dispute settlement procedures under this Agreement.   Article 8 Suspension and Termination of Proceedings  1. Where the parties to the dispute agree, the arbitral panel may suspend its work at any time for a period not exceeding twelve (12) months from the date of such agreement. Upon the request of any party to the dispute, the arbitral panel proceeding shall be resumed after such suspension.  If the work of the arbitral panel has been suspended for more than twelve (12) months, the authority of the arbitral panel shall lapse unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise.  2. The parties to the dispute may agree to terminate the proceedings of an arbitral panel at any time before the presentation of the final report to them, in the event that a mutually satisfactory solution to the dispute has been found.   3. Before the arbitral panel makes its decision, it may, at any stage of the proceedings, propose to the parties to the dispute that the dispute be settled amicably.   Article 9 Functions of Arbitral Panels  An arbitral panel shall make an objective assessment of the matter before it, including an examination of the facts of the case and the applicability of and conformity with the relevant covered agreements.  Where the arbitral panel concludes that a measure is inconsistent with a provision of any of the covered agreements, it shall recommend that the party complained against bring the measure into conformity with that provision.  In addition to its recommendations, the arbitral panel may suggest means by which the party complained against could implement the recommendations.  The arbitral panel shall consult regularly with the parties to the dispute and provide them adequate opportunities for the development of a mutually satisfactory resolution.  The arbitral panel shall interpret the relevant provisions of the covered agreements in accordance with customary rules of interpretation of public international law.  In its findings and recommendations, the arbitral panel cannot add to or diminish the rights and obligations provided in the covered agreements.   Article 10 Proceedings of Arbitral Panels  1. The rules and procedures pertaining to the proceedings before an arbitral panel as set out in the Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral Panel Proceedings 
shall apply unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise.  The arbitral panel may, after consulting the parties to the dispute, adopt additional rules and procedures not inconsistent with the Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral Panel Proceedings.  2. In any event the proceedings of the arbitral panel shall be in accordance with the following principles:  (a) a right to at least one hearing before the arbitral panel;   (b) an opportunity for each party to the dispute to provide initial and rebuttal submissions;  (c) a reasonable opportunity for each party to the dispute to submit comments on the interim report presented pursuant to Article 11; and   (d) the protection of confidential information.  3.  An arbitral panel shall meet in closed session.  The parties to the dispute shall be present at the meetings only when invited by the arbitral panel to appear before it.    Article 11 Interim Report   1. Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral panel shall base its report on the relevant provisions of the relevant covered agreement, on the submissions and arguments of the parties to the dispute, and on any information before it, pursuant to Article 13.   2. Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the arbitral panel shall, within ninety (90) days from the date of its establishment, present to the parties to the dispute an interim report containing:   (a) findings of law and/or fact together with reasons;  (b) its determination as to the interpretation, implementation or application of the relevant covered agreement or whether the measure at issue is inconsistent with obligations of the party complained against under the relevant covered agreement or whether the party complained against has otherwise failed to carry out its obligations under the relevant covered agreement or whether the measure at issue causes nullification or impairment of any benefit accruing to the complaining party under the relevant covered agreement or impediment of the attainment of any objective of the relevant covered agreement, or any other determination requested in the terms of reference; and   (c) where it determines that the measure at issue is inconsistent with the 
obligations under the relevant covered agreement, its recommendations to bring the measure into conformity with such covered agreement and its suggestion, if any, on means by which the party complained against could implement the recommendations.  3. When the arbitral panel considers that it cannot present its interim report within the period of time referred to in paragraph 2, it shall inform the parties to the dispute in writing of the reasons for the delay together with the estimate of the period within which it will issue its interim report.   4. The parties to the dispute may submit written comments on the interim report within fourteen (14) days of its presentation.   5. In case that such written comments by the parties to the dispute are received as provided for in paragraph 4, the arbitral panel, on its own initiative or at the request of a party to the dispute, may reconsider its report and make any further examination that it considers appropriate.   Article 12 Final Report  1. The arbitral panel shall present a final report to the parties to the dispute, within thirty (30) days of presentation of the interim report.   2. The arbitral panel shall present to the parties to the dispute its final report within 120 days from the date of its establishment.  In cases of urgency, including those relating to perishable goods, the arbitral panel shall aim to present its final report to the parties to the dispute within ninety (90) days from the date of its establishment.  When the arbitral panel considers that it cannot present its final report within 120 days, or within ninety (90) days in cases of urgency, it shall inform the parties to the dispute in writing of the reasons for the delay together with an estimate of the period within which it will present its report. In no case, however, should the period from the establishment of an arbitral panel to the presentation of the final report to parties to the dispute exceed 180 days or 120 days in the case of urgency, unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree.  3. The final report of the arbitral panel shall be made publicly available within ten (10) days of its presentation to the parties to the dispute.   Article 13 Information and Technical Advice  1. Upon request of a party to the dispute, or on its own initiative, the arbitral panel may seek information and technical advice from any person or body that it deems appropriate.  Any information and technical advice so obtained shall be made available to the parties to the dispute. 
 2. With respect to factual issues concerning a scientific or other technical matter raised by a party to the dispute, the arbitral panel may request advisory reports in writing from an expert or experts.  The arbitral panel may, at the request of a party to the dispute or on its initiative, select, after a consultation with the parties to the dispute, scientific or technical experts who shall assist the arbitral panel throughout its proceedings, but who shall not have the right to vote in respect of any decision to be made by the arbitral panel.   Article 14 Implementation of the Final Report  1. The final report of an arbitral panel shall be binding on the parties to the dispute and shall not be subject to appeal.  2. If, in its final report, the arbitral panel determines that the party complained against has not conformed to its obligations under the relevant covered agreement, or that the party’s measure has caused nullification or impairment, the means to implement the recommendations shall be to eliminate the non-conformity, or the nullification or impairment.  3. The parties to the dispute, shall, within twenty (20) days upon presentation of the final report of an arbitral panel, agree on:  (a) the means to implement the recommendations of the arbitral panel; and  (b) the reasonable period of time which is necessary to implement the recommendations of the arbitral panel.  4. If the parties to the dispute fail to agree, a party to the dispute may refer the matter to the original arbitral panel.  The party complained against shall, within fifteen (15) days after the date of referral of the matter to the arbitral panel, propose the means to implement the recommendations of the original arbitral panel.  The arbitral panel shall determine the consistency of the means proposed by the party complained against with the recommendations and/or the reasonable period of time.  The arbitral panel shall present its report to the parties to the dispute within thirty (30) days after the date of the referral of the matter to it.  No measure can be taken under Article 15 without any determination by the arbitral panel under this paragraph.  5. Where there is disagreement as to the existence or consistency of measures taken with the recommendation of the arbitral panel within the reasonable period of time, such dispute shall be referred to the original arbitral panel.  The arbitral panel shall present its report within thirty (30) days after the date of referral of the matter to it.      
Article 15 Compensation and the Suspension of Concessions or Benefits  1. Compensation and the suspension of concessions or benefits are temporary measures available in the event that the recommendations are not implemented within a reasonable period of time.  However, neither compensation nor the suspension of concessions or benefits is preferred to full implementation of the recommendations to bring a measure into conformity with the covered agreements.  Compensation is voluntary and, if granted, shall be consistent with the covered agreements.  2. If the party complained against fails to bring the measure found to be inconsistent with the relevant covered agreement into compliance with the recommendations of the arbitral panel within the reasonable period of time determined pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 14, the party complained against shall, if so requested, enter into negotiations with the complaining party with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory agreement on any necessary compensatory adjustment.  3. If no mutually satisfactory agreement on compensation has been reached within twenty (20) days after the date of receipt of the request of the complaining party to enter into negotiations on compensatory adjustment, the complaining party may at any time thereafter provide a written notice to the party complained against and the rest of the Parties that it intends to suspend the application to the party complained against of concessions or benefits of equivalent effect and may begin suspending concessions or benefits thirty (30) days after the date of receipt of the notice.  The notice shall specify the level of concessions or benefits proposed to be suspended and the relevant covered agreement and sector(s) which the concessions or benefits are related to.  Within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notice, the party complained against may request the original arbitral panel to rule on whether the benefits which the complaining party proposes to suspend are equivalent to those affected by the measure found to be inconsistent with the relevant covered agreement, and whether the proposed suspension is in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5.  The ruling of the arbitral panel shall be given within forty–five (45) days from the date of receipt of that request.  Concessions or benefits shall not be suspended until the arbitral panel has issued its ruling.  4. Any suspension of concessions or benefits shall be restricted to the concessions or benefits granted to the party complained against under the relevant covered agreement, subject to paragraph 5.  The party complained against and the rest of the Parties shall be informed of the commencement and details of any such suspension.  5. In considering what concessions or benefits to suspend under paragraph 3:   (a) the complaining party should first seek to suspend concessions or benefits in the same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure or other matter that the arbitral panel has found to be inconsistent with the relevant covered agreement or to have caused nullification or impairment; and   (b) the complaining party may suspend concessions or benefits in other 
sectors if it considers that it is not practicable or effective to suspend concessions or benefits in the same sector.   6. The suspension of concessions or benefits shall be temporary and shall only be applied until such time as the measure found to be inconsistent with the relevant covered agreement, has been removed, or the party complained against that must implement the arbitral panel's recommendations has done so, or a mutually satisfactory solution is reached.  7. If the party complained against considers that:   (a) the level of concessions or benefits suspended by the complaining party is manifestly excessive; or   (b) it has eliminated the non-conformity, or the nullification or impairment that the arbitral panel has found;  it may request the original arbitral panel to determine the matter.  The arbitral panel shall present its determination to the parties to the dispute within thirty (30) days after it reconvenes.    Article 16 Official Language  1. All proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall be conducted in the English language.  2. Any document submitted for use in any proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall be in the English language.  If any original document is not in the English language, a Party submitting it for use in the proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall provide an English translation of that document.   Article 17 Expenses  1. Each party to a dispute shall bear the costs of the arbitral panel member, appointed by that party to the dispute, and its own expenses and legal costs.    2. Unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree, the costs of the chair of the arbitral panel and other expenses associated with the conduct of its proceedings shall be borne in equal parts by the parties to a dispute.   Article 18 Annex  
The Annex on the Rules and Procedures for the Arbitral Panel Proceedings and the contents therein shall form an integral part of this Agreement.    Article 19  Amendments  The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties.   Article 20 Depositary   For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member Country.   Article 21 Entry into Force  1. This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 July 2006, provided that Korea and at least one ASEAN Member Country are among the Signatory Countries that have by then notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures. In the event this Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 2006, it shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which Korea and at least one ASEAN Member County have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  2. A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, notify all the other Parties in writing.   3. Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall come into force for that Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its internal procedures.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia this   day of December 2005, in duplicate copies in the English language.   
For the Government of the Republic of Korea  KIM HYUN-CHONG Minister for Trade   For the Government of Brunei Darussalam  LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade   For the Royal Government of Cambodia  CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce   For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia  MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade   For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic  SOULIVONG DARAVONG Minister of Commerce   For the Government of Malaysia  RAFIDAH AZIZ Minister of International Trade and Industry   For the Government of the Union of Myanmar  SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development   For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines  PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry   
For the Government of the Republic of Singapore  LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry   For the Government of Thailand  SOMKID JATUSRIPITAK Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce   For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam  TRUONG DINH TUYEN Minister of Trade    
   ANNEX RULES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE ARBITRAL PANEL PROCEEDINGS   Application  1. These Rules are established under Article 10 and shall apply to arbitral panel proceedings under this Agreement unless the parties to the dispute otherwise agree.   2. Any reference made in these Rules to an Article is a reference to the appropriate Article in this Agreement.  Terms of Reference for Arbitral Panels  3. An arbitral panel shall have the following terms of reference unless the parties to the dispute agree otherwise within ten (10) days from the date of the establishment of an arbitral panel:  "To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions in (name of the covered agreement(s) cited by the parties to the dispute), the matter referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitral panel pursuant to Article 5, to make findings, determinations, recommendations and suggestions, if any, as provided in Article 11, and to present the written reports referred to in Articles 11 and 12.”  4. The parties to the dispute shall promptly deliver the agreed terms of reference to the arbitral panel.  The arbitral panel shall address the relevant provisions in the covered agreements cited by the parties to the dispute.   Written Submissions and Other Documents  5. Each party to the dispute shall deliver no less than four copies of its written submissions to the arbitral panel and a copy to the other party to the dispute.  6. A complaining party shall deliver its initial written submission to the party complained against no later than twenty (20) days after the date of the establishment of the arbitral panel.  The party complained against shall deliver its written submission to the complaining party no later than twenty (20) days after the date of receipt of the initial written submission of the complaining party.   7. In respect of any request, notice or other document(s) related to the arbitral panel proceeding that is not covered by paragraphs 5 and 6, each party to the dispute may deliver a copy of the document(s) to the other party to the dispute by facsimile, email or other means of electronic transmission.   
 8. A party to the dispute may at any time correct minor errors of a clerical nature in any request, notice, written submission or other document(s) related to the arbitral panel proceeding by delivering a new document clearly indicating the changes.   Operation of Arbitral Panels  9. The chair of the arbitral panel shall preside at all of its meetings.  An arbitral panel may delegate to the chair authority to make administrative and procedural decisions.   10. Except as otherwise provided in these Rules, the arbitral panel may conduct its business by any means, including by telephone, facsimile transmission and computer links.   11. Only members of the arbitral panel may take part in the deliberations of the arbitral panel, but the arbitral panel may, in consultation with the parties to the dispute, retain such number of assistants, interpreters or translators, or designated note takers as may be required for the proceeding and permit them to be present during such deliberations.  The members of the arbitral panel and the persons retained by the arbitral panel shall maintain the confidentiality of the arbitral panel proceeding unless such information is already made available to the public.  12. Where a procedural question arises that is not addressed by these Rules, an arbitral panel may adopt an appropriate procedure that is not inconsistent with this Agreement, unless it considers that the procedural question may affect in a meaningful manner the way in which it examines matters before it, in which case it shall consult with the parties to the dispute.   13. Any time period applicable to the arbitral panel proceeding shall be suspended for a period that begins on the date on which any member of the arbitral panel becomes unable to act and ends on the date on which the successor member is appointed.  14. An arbitral panel may, in consultation with the parties to the dispute, modify any time period applicable in the arbitral panel proceeding and make such other procedural or administrative adjustments as may be required in the proceeding.  15. The venue for the arbitral panel proceedings shall be decided by mutual agreement between the parties to the dispute.  If there is no agreement, the venue shall alternate between the capitals of the parties to the dispute with the first session of the arbitral panel proceeding to be held in the capital of the party complained against.  16. All third parties which have notified their interest in the dispute shall be invited in writing to present their views during the first session of the arbitral panel proceeding set aside for that purpose.  All such third parties may be present during the entirety of this session.  17. The interim and final report of the arbitral panel shall be drafted without the 
presence of the parties to the dispute in the light of the information provided and the statements made.  Opinions expressed in the report of the arbitral panel by its individual member shall be anonymous.  18. Following the consideration of submissions, arguments and any information before it, the arbitral panel shall present an interim report to the parties to the dispute, including both a descriptive section relating to the facts of the dispute and the arguments of the parties to the dispute and the arbitral panel's findings and conclusions.  The arbitral panel shall accord adequate opportunity to the parties to the dispute to review the entirety of its interim report prior to its finalisation and shall include a discussion of any comments by the parties concerned in its final report.  Timetable  19. After consulting the parties to the dispute, the chair of the arbitral panel shall, as soon as practicable and whenever possible within fifteen (15) days after the establishment of the arbitral panel, fix the timetable for the arbitral panel process.  In determining the timetable for the arbitral panel process, the arbitral panel shall provide sufficient time for the parties to the dispute to prepare their respective submissions.  The arbitral panel should set precise deadlines for written submissions by the parties to the dispute and they shall respect those deadlines.  Decisions of the Arbitral Panel  20. The arbitral panel shall take its decisions by consensus; provided that where the arbitral panel is unable to reach consensus, it may take its decisions by majority vote.  Availability of Information  21.  The deliberations of the arbitral panel and the documents submitted to it shall be kept confidential.  No party to the dispute shall be precluded from disclosing statements of its own positions to the public.  The parties to the dispute shall treat as confidential information submitted by the other party to the dispute to the arbitral panel which that party has designated as confidential.  Where a party to the dispute submits a confidential version of its written submissions to the arbitral panel, it shall also, upon request of the other party to the dispute, provide a non-confidential summary of the information contained in its submissions that could be disclosed to the public.  Remuneration and Payment of Expenses  22. The arbitral panel shall keep a record and render a final account of all general expenses incurred in connection with the proceedings, including those paid to their assistants, designated note takers or other individuals that it retains pursuant to paragraph 11.  
   AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN GOODS UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS     The Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations; Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam,  RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations signed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on the thirteenth day of December 2005;  FURTHER RECALLING Articles 1.3 and 2.1 of the Framework Agreement, which reflect their commitment to establish the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area covering trade in goods;  REAFFIRMING their commitment to eliminate duties and other restrictive regulations of commerce on substantially all trade in goods among the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries within the specified time frames, while allowing flexibility to them to address their sensitive areas as provided in the Framework Agreement; and  RECOGNISING the different stages of economic development among the ASEAN Member Countries and the need for flexibility to be given to the new ASEAN Member Countries, in particular the need to facilitate their increasing participation in the economic cooperation of the Parties and the expansion of their exports, including, inter alia, through strengthening of their domestic capacity, efficiency and competitiveness,  HAVE AGREED as follows:   Article 1 Definitions  For the purposes of this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:  Korea means the Republic of Korea;                                                  
 Korea + AEM means the Minister for Trade of Korea and the Economic Ministers of the ASEAN Member Countries;  applied MFN tariff rates:  (a) in the case of the ASEAN Member Countries which are WTO members as of 1 January 2005 and Korea, means their respective applied rates as of 1 January 2005; and  (b) in the case of ASEAN Member Countries which are non-WTO members as of 1 January 2005, refer to the rates as applied to Korea as of 1 January 2005;  ASEAN means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations which comprises of Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;  Korea-ASEAN FTA means the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area established by the Framework Agreement and other relevant agreements stipulated in paragraph 1 of Article 1.4 of the Framework Agreement;  ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam collectively;  ASEAN Member Country means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of Vietnam individually;  ASEAN 6 means Brunei Darussalam, the Republic of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore and the Kingdom of Thailand;  Framework Agreement means the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and ASEAN Member Countries;  GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, including its Notes and Supplementary Provisions, which is a part of the WTO Agreement;  Implementing Committee means the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement;                                                  
 new ASEAN Member Countries means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao Peoples’ Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;  non-tariff measures shall include non-tariff barriers;   Parties means Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries collectively;  Party means Korea or an ASEAN Member Country;  WTO means the World Trade Organisation; and  WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation, done on 15 April 1994 and the other agreements negotiated thereunder.   Article 2 National Treatment on Internal Taxation and Regulation  Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of all the other Parties in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994.  To this end, the provisions of Article III of GATT 1994 shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement.   Article 3 Tariff Reduction and Elimination  1. The tariff reduction or elimination programme of the Parties shall require the applied MFN tariff rates on goods under listed tariff lines to be gradually reduced and, where applicable, eliminated in accordance with this Article.  2. All tariff lines are subject to the tariff reduction or elimination programme under this Agreement and shall be categorised as follows:  (a) Normal Track: tariff lines placed in the Normal Track by each Party on its own accord shall have their respective applied MFN tariff rates gradually reduced and eliminated in accordance with the modalities set out in Annex 1 with the objective of achieving the targets prescribed in the thresholds therein; and   (b) Sensitive Track: tariff lines placed in the Sensitive Track by each Party on its own accord shall have their respective applied MFN tariff rates reduced or eliminated in accordance with the modalities set out in Annex 2.  
3. Subject to Annexes 1 and 2, all commitments undertaken by each Party under this Article shall be applied to all the other Parties.   Article 4 Transparency  Article X of GATT 1994 shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement.   Article 5 Rules of Origin   The Rules of Origin and the Operational Certification Procedures applicable to the goods covered under this Agreement are set out in Annex 3 and its Appendices.   Article 6 Modification of Concessions  1. The Parties shall not nullify or impair any of the concessions under this Agreement, except in cases provided for in this Agreement.  2. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude any Party from negotiating and entering into arrangements to accelerate the implementation of concessions made under this Agreement or to incorporate new goods into such concessions, provided that such arrangements are mutually agreed upon and applied to all the other Parties.  3. Any Party may, by negotiation and agreement with any other Party to which it has made a concession, modify or withdraw such concession made under this Agreement.  In such negotiations and agreement, which may include provision for compensatory adjustment with respect to other goods, the Parties concerned shall maintain a general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions not less favourable to trade than that provided for in this Agreement prior to such agreement.  4. Any agreement by the Parties to modify or withdraw concessions made in the tariff reduction or elimination programme in accordance with paragraph 3, or to accelerate the elimination of tariffs in such programme or to incorporate goods into such programme in accordance with paragraph 2, shall supersede any tariff rate or track determined pursuant to the tariff reduction or elimination programme for that good as set out in Annexes 1 and 2, shall be treated as an amendment to the relevant Annexes and shall enter into force in accordance with the procedure under Article 17.      
Article 7 WTO Disciplines  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and any future agreements as may be agreed pursuant to the reviews of this Agreement by the Parties under Article 15, the Parties hereby agree and reaffirm their commitments to abide by the provisions of the WTO disciplines as set out in Annexes 1A and 1C to the WTO Agreement, which include, among others, non-tariff measures, technical barriers to trade (hereinafter referred to as “TBT”), sanitary and phytosanitary (hereinafter referred to as “SPS”) measures, subsidies and countervailing measures, anti-dumping measures and intellectual property rights.   Article 8 Quantitative Restrictions and Non-Tariff Barriers and  Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  1. Each Party undertakes not to adopt or maintain any prohibition or quantitative restriction on the importation of any goods of the other Parties or on the exportation of any goods destined for the territory of the other Parties, except in accordance with its WTO rights and obligations or other provisions in this Agreement.  2. Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures that they are not prepared, adopted or applied with a view to or with the effect of creating unnecessary obstacles to trade among the Parties.  The Parties shall identify non-tariff barriers other than quantitative restrictions for elimination as soon as possible after the entry into force of this Agreement.  The timeframe for elimination of these non-tariff barriers shall be mutually agreed upon by all the Parties.  3. The Parties recognises the importance of transparency of TBT and SPS regulations as in the WTO Agreements on TBT and SPS, including notification procedures on preparation for regulations and standards on TBT and on any occurrences of SPS incident to reduce their negative effect on trade as well as to protect human, animal or plant life or health.  Each Party shall designate its contact point for the purpose of responding queries related to this Article.  4. A working group on TBT and SPS (hereinafter referred to as the “WG on TBT and SPS”) under the Implementing Committee shall be established to deal with issues relating to the implementation of this Article and to facilitate trade and protect human, animal or plant life or health through mutual cooperation and bilateral consultations.  The WG on TBT and SPS shall comprise of government officials from agriculture, fisheries, livestock and industry agencies and other related agencies.  The WG on TBT and SPS shall develop its scope of work and meet at least once a year or as mutually agreed upon by the Parties.                                                    
Article 9 Safeguard Measures  1. Each Party which is a WTO member retains its rights and obligations under Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  Actions taken pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards shall not be subject to the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement.   2. With regard to Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measures, a Party shall have the right to initiate such a measure on a good within the transition period for that good.  The transition period for a good shall begin from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and end seven (7) years from the date of completion of tariff reduction/elimination for that good.  3. Subject to the following paragraphs of this Article, a Party shall be free to take Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measures if as an effect of the obligations incurred by the Party under this Agreement, including tariff concessions, or, if as a result of unforeseen developments and of the effects of the obligations incurred by the Party, a good is being imported from the other Parties to which tariff concession was made for that good in such increased quantities, absolute or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions so as to substantially cause or threaten to cause serious injury to the domestic industry of the importing Party that produces like or directly competitive goods in its territory.  4. If a Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure is taken, a Party taking such a measure may:  (a) suspend the further reduction of any rate of tariff provided for under this Agreement for the good; or  (b) increase the tariff rate on the good concerned to a level not to exceed the lesser of:  (i) the applied MFN tariff rate on the good in effect at the time the action is taken; and  (ii) the applied MFN tariff rate on the good in effect on the day immediately preceding the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  5. Any Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure may be maintained for an initial period of up to three (3) years and may be extended for a period not exceeding one year if it is determined pursuant to the procedures referred to in paragraph 6 that the measure continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy serious injury and to facilitate adjustment and that there is evidence that the domestic industry is adjusting.  Notwithstanding the duration of a Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure on the good, such a measure shall terminate at the end of the transition period for that good. 
6. In applying Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measures, the Parties shall adopt the rules for the application of safeguard measures, including provisional measures, as provided under the WTO Agreement on Safeguards, with the exception of the quantitative restriction measures set out in Article 5, and Articles 9, 13, and 14 of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  As such, all other provisions of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards shall, mutatis mutandis, be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement.  7. A Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure shall not be applied against a good originating in the territory of a Party, so long as its share of imports of the good concerned in the importing Party does not exceed 3% of the total imports from the Parties.  8. In seeking compensation under Article 8 of the WTO Agreement on Safeguards for a Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure, the Parties concerned shall seek the good offices of the Implementing Committee to determine the substantially equivalent level of concessions to that existing under this Agreement between the Party taking the safeguard measure and the exporting Parties which would be affected by such a measure prior to any suspension of equivalent concessions.  Any proceedings arising from such good offices shall be completed within ninety (90) days from the date on which the Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure was applied.  9. On a Party’s termination of a Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure on a good, the tariff rate for that good shall be the rate that, according to that Party’s tariff reduction and elimination programme as provided in Annexes 1 and 2, would have been in effect but for the measure.  10. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article, no Party may impose an Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure on a good to which actions are being applied pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  When a Party intends to apply, pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards, an action on a good to which Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure is being applied, it shall terminate the Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measure prior to the imposition of the action to be applied pursuant to Article XIX of GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.   11. All official communications and documentations exchanged among the Parties and to the Implementing Committee relating to any Korea-ASEAN FTA safeguard measures shall be in writing and shall be in the English language.   Article 10 Measures to Safeguard the Balance of Payments  Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or threat thereof, it may, in accordance with GATT 1994, which includes the Understanding on Balance-of-Payments Provisions of GATT 1994, adopt restrictive 
import measures.  In adopting such measures, the Party shall immediately consult with the other Parties.   Article 11 General Exceptions  Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination among the Parties where the same conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on international trade, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by a Party of measures:  (a) necessary to protect public morals;  (b) necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;  (c) relating to the importations or exportations of gold or silver;  (d) necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, including those relating to customs enforcement, the enforcement of monopolies operated under paragraph 4 of Article II and Article XVII of GATT 1994, the protection of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and the prevention of deceptive practices;  (e) relating to the products of prison labour;  (f) imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value;  (g) relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such measures are made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic production or consumption;  (h) undertaken in pursuance of the obligations under any intergovernmental commodity agreement which conforms to criteria submitted to the WTO and not disapproved by it or which is itself so submitted and not so disapproved;  (i) involving restrictions on exports of domestic materials necessary to ensure essential quantities of such materials to a domestic processing industry during periods when the domestic price of such materials is held below the world price as part of a governmental stabilisation plan, provided that such restrictions shall not operate to increase the exports of or the protection afforded to such domestic industry, and shall not depart from the provisions of this Agreement relating to non-discrimination; and 
(j) essential to the acquisition or distribution of products in general or local short supply, provided that any such measures shall be consistent with the principle that all Parties are entitled to an equitable share of the international supply of such products, and that any such measures, which are inconsistent with the other provisions of this Agreement shall be discontinued as soon as the conditions giving rise to them have ceased to exist.   Article 12 Security Exceptions  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  (a) to require any Party to furnish any information the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its essential security interests;  (b) to prevent any Party from taking any action which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests, including but not limited to:  (i) action relating to fissionable materials or the materials from which they are derived;  (ii) action relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war and to such traffic in other goods and materials as is carried on directly or indirectly for the purpose of supplying a military establishment;  (iii) action taken so as to protect critical communications infrastructure from deliberate attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructure;  (iv) action taken in time of war or other emergency in domestic or international relations; or  (c) to prevent any Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security.   Article 13 Regional and Local Government  In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this Agreement, each Party shall ensure their observance by regional and local governments and authorities in its territory as well as their observance by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities within its territory. 
  Article 14 Institutional Arrangements  The institutions as provided for in Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement shall oversee, supervise, coordinate and review, as appropriate, the implementation of this Agreement.    Article 15 Review  1. The Korea+AEM or their designated representatives shall meet within one year of the date of entry into force of this Agreement and then biennially or otherwise as appropriate to review this Agreement for the purpose of considering further measures to liberalise trade in goods as well as develop disciplines and negotiate agreements on matters referred to in Article 7 or any other relevant matters as may be agreed.  2. The Parties shall, taking into account their respective experiences in the implementation of this Agreement, review the Sensitive Track in 2012 and every three years thereafter with a view to improving the market access condition of sensitive goods, including the further possible reduction of the number of goods in the Sensitive Track and the conditions governing the reciprocal tariff rate treatment of goods placed by a Party in the Sensitive Track.   Article 16 Annexes and Future Legal Instruments  1. The Annexes and Appendices shall form an integral part of this Agreement.  2. The Parties may adopt legal instruments in the future pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.  Upon their respective entry into force, such instruments shall form part of this Agreement.   Article 17 Amendments  The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties.    Article 18 Relations to Other Agreements  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement or any action taken 
under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of a Party under the existing agreements to which it is a party.   Article 19 Dispute Settlement  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement.   Article 20 Depositary  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member Country.   Article 21 Entry into Force  1. This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 July 2006, provided that at least Korea and one ASEAN Member Country are among the Signatory Countries that have by then notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  In the event this Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 2006, it shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which at least Korea and one ASEAN Member Country have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  2. A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, notify all the other Parties in writing.  3. Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall come into force for that Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its internal procedures.  The Party concerned, however, shall be bound by the same terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any further commitments that may have been undertaken by the other Parties under this Agreement by the time of such notification, as if it had notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures before the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of 
Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia this twenty fourth day of August 2006, in duplicate copies in the English language.   For the Government of the Republic of Korea       KIM HYUN-CHONG Minister for Trade     For the Government of Brunei Darussalam       LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade     For the Royal Government of Cambodia       CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce                                                      
For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia       MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade     For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic       NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce     For the Government of Malaysia       RAFIDAH AZIZ Minister of International Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Union of Myanmar       U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development 
For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines       PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Republic of Singapore       LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam       TRUONG DINH TUYEN Minister of Trade           
Annex 1: Modalities for Tariff Reduction and Elimination for Tariff Lines Placed in the Normal Track.  Annex 2: Modalities for Tariff Reduction and Elimination for Tariff Lines Placed in the Sensitive Track.  Annex 3: Rules of Origin 
   ANNEX 1 MODALITY FOR TARIFF REDUCTION AND ELIMINATION FOR TARIFF LINES PLACED IN THE NORMAL TRACK    1. Tariff lines placed by each Party in the Normal Track shall have their respective applied MFN tariff rates gradually reduced and eliminated according to the following Schedules.  The first date of implementation shall be the date of entry into force of the Agreement.  The tariff reduction will be in accordance with the rate provided for that year in the schedule.  (i) Korea and ASEAN 6  
[['X = applied\nMFN tariff rate', '', 'Korea-ASEAN FTA Preferential Tariff Rate', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, None, '(not later than 1 January)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', '2006', '', '', '2007', '', '', '2008', '', '', '2009', '', '', '2010', ''], ['X > 20%', '20', None, None, '13', None, None, '10', None, None, '5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['15% < x < 20%', '15', None, None, '10', None, None, '8', None, None, '5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['10% < x < 15%', '10', None, None, '8', None, None, '5', None, None, '3', None, None, '0', None, None], ['5% < x < 10%', '5', None, None, '5', None, None, '3', None, None, '0', None, None, '0', None, None], ['X < 5%', 'Standstill', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '0', None, None, '0', None, None]]
 (ii) Socialist Republic of Vietnam (“Vietnam”)  Korea-ASEAN FTA Preferential Tariff Rate (not later than 1 January) X = applied MFN tariff rate 2006 20072008200920112013 2015 2016X > 60% 60 50 40 30 20 15 10 0 40% < X < 60% 45 40 35 25 20 15 10 0 35% < X < 40% 35 30 30 20 15 10 0-5 0 30% < X < 35% 30 30 25 20 15 10 0-5 0 25% < X < 30% 25 25 20 20 10 7 0-5 0 20% < X < 25% 20 20 15 15 10 7 0-5 0 15% < X < 20% 15 15 15 10 7 5 0-5 0 10% < X < 15% 10 10 10 8 5 0-5 0-5 0 7% < X < 10% 7 7 7 7 5 0-5 0-5 0 5% < X < 7% 5 5 5 5 5 0-5 0 0 X < 5% Standstill 0   
(iii) Kingdom of Cambodia (“Cambodia”), Lao People’s Democratic Republic (“Lao PDR”), and Union of Myanmar (“Myanmar”)  
[['', 'X = Applied', '', '', 'Korea-ASEAN FTA Preferential Tariff Rate', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, 'MFN', None, None, '(Not later than 1 January)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Tariff Rate', None, '', '2006', '', '', '2007', '', '', '2008', '', '', '2009', '', '', '2012', '', '', '2015', '', '', '2018', ''], ['X > 60%', None, None, '60', None, None, '50', None, None, '40', None, None, '30', None, None, '20', None, None, '10', None, None, '0', None, None], ['45% < X < 60%', None, None, '45', None, None, '40', None, None, '35', None, None, '25', None, None, '15', None, None, '10', None, None, '0', None, None], ['35% < X < 45%', None, None, '35', None, None, '30', None, None, '30', None, None, '20', None, None, '15', None, None, '5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['30% < X < 35%', None, None, '30', None, None, '30', None, None, '25', None, None, '20', None, None, '10', None, None, '5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['25% < X < 30%', None, None, '25', None, None, '25', None, None, '20', None, None, '20', None, None, '10', None, None, '5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['20% < X < 25%', None, None, '20', None, None, '20', None, None, '15', None, None, '15', None, None, '10', None, None, '0-5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['15% < X < 20%', None, None, '15', None, None, '15', None, None, '15', None, None, '10', None, None, '5', None, None, '0-5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['10% < X < 15%', None, None, '10', None, None, '10', None, None, '10', None, None, '8', None, None, '5', None, None, '0-5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['7% < X < 10%', None, None, '7*', None, None, '7*', None, None, '7*', None, None, '7*', None, None, '5', None, None, '0-5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['5% < X < 7%', None, None, '5', None, None, '5', None, None, '5', None, None, '5', None, None, '5', None, None, '0-5', None, None, '0', None, None], ['X < 5%', None, None, 'Standstill', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '0', None, None]]
* Myanmar shall be allowed to maintain Korea-ASEAN FTA preferential tariff rates at no more than 7.5% until 2010.  2. The tariff rates specified in the relevant Schedules in paragraph 1 only set out the level of the applicable Korea-ASEAN FTA preferential tariff rates to be applied by each Party for the tariff lines concerned in the specified year of implementation and shall not prevent any Party from unilaterally accelerating its tariff reduction or elimination at any time if it so wishes.  3. The tariff lines in the Normal Track, which are subject to specific tariff rates, shall have such specific tariff rates reduced to zero, in equal proportions in accordance with the timeframes provided in the Schedules set out in paragraph 1.  4. For all tariff lines placed in the Normal Track where the applied MFN tariff rates are at 0%, they shall remain at 0%.  Where they have been reduced to 0%, they shall remain at 0%.  No Party shall be permitted to increase the tariff rates for any tariff line, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement.  5. As an integral part of its commitments to reduce and/or eliminate the applied MFN tariff rates in accordance with the relevant Schedules in paragraph 1, each Party hereby commits to undertake further tariff reduction and/or elimination in accordance with the following thresholds:  (a) Korea  (i) Korea shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 70 % of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track upon the entry into force of this Agreement.  
(ii) Korea shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 95% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2008.  (iii) Korea shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2010.  (b) ASEAN 6  (i) Each Party shall reduce its applied MFN tariff rates for at least 50 % of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track to 0-5 % not later than 1 January 2007.  (ii) Each Party shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 90 % of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2009.  (iii) Each Party shall eliminate its tariffs for all tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2010, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not exceeding 5% of all the tariff lines or as listed in an agreed Schedule, eliminated not later than 1 January 2012.  (iv) Each Party shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2012.  (c) Vietnam  (i) Vietnam shall reduce its applied MFN tariff rates for at least 50% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2013.  (ii) Vietnam shall eliminate its tariffs for at least 90% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2015.  (iii) Vietnam shall eliminate its tariffs for all tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2016, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not exceeding 5% of all the tariff lines, eliminated not later than 1 January 2018.  (iv) Vietnam shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2018.  (d) Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar  (i) Each Party shall reduce their respective applied MFN tariff rates for at least 50% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2015.  
(ii) Each Party shall eliminate their respective tariffs for at least 90% of the tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2017.  (iii) Each Party shall eliminate their respective tariffs for all tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2018, with flexibility to have tariff lines, not exceeding 5% of all the tariff lines, eliminated not later than 1 January 2020.  (iv) Each Party shall eliminate all its tariffs for tariff lines placed in the Normal Track not later than 1 January 2020.  6. If an exporting Party places a tarrif line in the Normal Track, that exporting Party shall enjoy the tariff concessions which an importing Party has made for that tariff line as specified in and applied pursuant to the relevant Schedules either in this Annex or Annex 2 together with the undertakings and conditions set out therein.  This right shall be enjoyed for so long as that exporting Party adheres to its own commitments for tariff reduction and elimination for that tariff line.  7. Each Party shall eliminate all its tariffs for the tariff lines given flexibility in paragraph 5, not later than 1January 2012.  8. Each Party shall notify the other Parties its tariff lines placed in the Normal Track along with the tariff elimination schedule for each tariff line in accordance with paragraph 5, not later than the date when the commitment of the Party commences with respect to the tariff lines. 
December 1, 2005   Mr. Deddy Saleh Director of Regional Cooperation Ministry of Trade Republic of Indonesia  Dear Director Deddy Saleh:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Member Countries of ASEAN and the Republic of Korea (hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement").   Resulting from the above Agreement, I have the honour to confirm the understanding of Korea that in relation to subparagraph 5(b)(iii) in Annex 1 of the Agreement, Indonesia may have flexibility of selecting more than 5% of all tariff lines the tariff rate of which shall be eliminated no later than January 1, 2012, subject to other provisions of the Annex. This understanding is reflected in the words "as listed in an agreed Schedule" in subparagraph 5(b)(iii).   I would be grateful if you would confirm that the understanding of my Government as stated above is shared by your Government and that this understanding shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement.      Sincerely,   Mr. Kim Han-soo     Director General      Free Trade Agreement Bureau     Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade     Republic of Korea 
December 1, 2005   Mr. Ramon Kabigting Director of Bureau of International Trade Relations Department of Trade and Industry Republic of Philippines  Dear Mr. Kabigting:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Member Countries of ASEAN and the Republic of Korea (hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement").   Resulting from the above Agreement, I have the honour to confirm the understanding of Korea that in relation to subparagraph 5(b)(iii) in Annex 1 of the Agreement, Philippines may have flexibility of selecting more than 5% of all tariff lines the tariff rate of which shall be eliminated no later than January 1, 2012, subject to other provisions of the Annex. This understanding is reflected in the words "as listed in an agreed Schedule" in subparagraph 5(b)(iii).   I would be grateful if you would confirm that the understanding of my Government as stated above is shared by your Government and that this understanding shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement.      Sincerely,      Mr. Kim Han-soo     Director General      Free Trade Agreement Bureau     Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade     Republic of Korea 
Jakarta, 5 December 2005   Mr. Kim Han-soo Director General  Free Trade Agreement Bureau Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Republic of Korea  Dear Mr. Kim,   I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter addressed to Mr. Deddy Saleh, Director of Regional Cooperation dated of December 1, 2005, which written and read as follows:   "I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Member Countries of ASEAN and the Republic of Korea(hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement").   Resulting from the above Agreement, I have the honour to confirm the understanding of Korea that in relation to subparagraph 5(b)(iii) in Annex 1 of the Agreement, Indonesia may have flexibility of selecting more than 5% of all tariff lines the tariff rate of which shall be eliminated no later than January 1, 2012, subject to other provisions of the Annex.  This understanding is reflected in the words "as listed in an agreed Schedule" in subparagraph 5(b)(iii).   I would be grateful if you would confirm that the understanding of my Government as stated above is shared by your Government and that this understanding shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement".   I have the honor to confirm that this understanding is shared by my Government and that this understanding shall constitute an integral part of the Agreement.  Sincerely,   HERRY SOETANTO Director General of International Trade Cooperation Ministry of Trade Republic of Indonesia  CC: 1. ASEAN Secretary General 2. Mr. David Chin, ASEAN Co-Chair for ASEAN-Korea FTA Negotiations   
2 December 2005   Mr. Kim Han-soo Director General  Free Trade Agreement Bureau Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade Republic of Korea  Dear Mr. Kim:   I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated 1 December 2005, copy of which is attached.   I wish to confirm that the understanding as reflected in the said letter is shared by my Government and that said understanding shall constitute an integral part of the Agreement.   Very truly yours,   Ramon Vicente T. Kabigting Directror    
   ANNEX 2 MODALITY FOR TARIFF REDUCTION/ELIMINATION FOR TARIFF LINES PLACED IN THE SENSITIVE TRACK    1. The number of tariff lines which each Party can place in the Sensitive Track shall be subject to a maximum ceiling of:  (i) Korea and ASEAN 6:  10% of all the tariff lines and 10% of the total value of imports from Korea or from the ASEAN Member Countries as a whole, as appropriate, based on 2004 trade statistics;  (ii) Vietnam:  10% of all the tariff lines and 25% of the total value of imports from Korea based on 2004 trade statistics; and  (iii) Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar: 10% of all the tariff lines.  2. Tariff lines placed by each Party in the Sensitive Track shall be further classified into the Sensitive List and the Highly Sensitive List.  The number of tariff lines which each Party can place in the Highly Sensitive List shall be subject to a maximum ceiling of:  (i) Korea and ASEAN 6: 200 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit level or 3% of all the tariff lines at the HS digit level of each Party’s own choice and 3% of the total value of imports from Korea or from the ASEAN Member Countries as a whole, as appropriate, based on 2004 trade statistics.  (ii) Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Vietnam: 200 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit level or 3% of all the tariff lines at the HS digit level of each Party’s own choice.  3. The Parties shall reduce and, where applicable, eliminate the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in the Sensitive List according to the following Schedules:  (i) Korea and ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in their respective Sensitive Lists to 20% not later than 1 January 2012.  These tariff rates shall be subsequently reduced to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2016.  
(ii) Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in their respective Sensitive Lists to 20% not later than 1 January 2017.  These tariff rates shall be subsequently reduced to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2021.  (iii) Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in their respective Sensitive Lists to 20% not later than 1 January 2020.  These tariff rates shall be subsequently reduced to 0-5% not later than 1 January 2024.  4. The tariff lines placed in a Party’s Highly Sensitive List shall be categorised into five groups.  For each group of their respective tariff lines in the Highly Sensitive List, the Parties undertake the following commitments:  (i) Group A (Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping): Korea and ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group A to not more than 50 % not later than 1 January 2016.  Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group A to not more than 50% not later than 1 January 2021.  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group A to not more than 50 % not later than 1 January 2024.  (ii) Group B (Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%): Korea and ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group B by not less than 20% not later than 1 January 2016. Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group B by not less than 20% not later than 1 January 2021.  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group B by not less than 20% not later than 1 January 2024.  (iii) Group C (Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 50%): Korea and ASEAN 6 shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group C by not less than 50% not later than 1 January 2016.  Vietnam shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group C by not less than 50% not later than 1 January 2021.  Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar shall reduce the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group C by not less than 50% not later than 1 January 2024.  (iv) Group D (Tariff lines subject to TRQs): The parties shall apply the tariff rate quotas on imports of the goods of tariff lines placed in Group D from the entry into force of this Agreement, in accordance with the conditions set out in their respective Schedule.    
(v) Group E (Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession): Each Party reserves the rights to maintain the applied MFN tariff rates of tariff lines placed in Group E.  The number of tariff lines which each Party can place in Group E shall be subject to a maximum ceiling of 40 tariff lines at the HS 6-digit level.  5. Tariff lines in the Sensitive Track, which are subject to specific tariff rates, shall have such tariffs reduced in accordance with the timeframes provided for in paragraphs 3 and 4.  The proportion of tariff reduction for these tariff lines shall be equal to the average margin of tariff reduction of the tariff lines with ad-valorem tariff rates under the Sensitive Track, which are subject to tariff reduction in the same year.  6. Notwithstanding the Schedules in paragraphs 3 and 4, any Party may unilaterally accelerate the tariff reduction and/or elimination for its tariff lines placed in the Sensitive Track at any time if it so wishes.  Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent any Party from unilaterally transferring any tariff line from the Sensitive Track into the Normal Track at any time if it so wishes.   7. The reciprocal tariff rate treatment of tariff lines placed by an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track, excluding Group E, while the same tariff lines are placed by the importing Party in the Normal Track, shall be governed by the following conditions:  (i) the tariff rate for a tariff line placed by an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track, excluding Group E, must be at 10% or below and the exporting Party has given notification to that effect to the other Parties in order for that exporting Party to enjoy reciprocity;  (ii) the reciprocal tariff rate to be applied to a tariff line placed by an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track shall be either the tariff rate of that exporting Party’s tariff line, or the Normal Track tariff rate of the same tariff line of an importing Party from whom reciprocity is sought, whichever is higher;  (iii) notwithstanding sub-paragraph (ii), the importing Party can, on its discretion, apply its Normal Track tariff rate even if such rate is lower than the tariff rate of the exporting Party; and   (iv) the reciprocal tariff rate to be applied to a tariff line placed by an exporting Party in the Sensitive Track shall in no case exceed the applied MFN rate of the same tariff line of an importing Party from whom reciprocity is sought.  8. The tariff lines placed by each Party in the Sensitive List and the Highly Sensitive List under the Sensitive Track based on the modality set out in this Annex are respectively listed in Appendices 1 and 2.    
APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Brunei Darussalam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['', '', 'New pneumatic tyres, of rubber'], ['1', '4011.20', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries:'], ['', '4011.20.10', '- Of a width not exceeding 450mm'], ['', '4011.20.90', '-Other'], ['', '', 'Inner tubes, of rubber.'], ['', '', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars), buses or\nlorries:'], ['2', '4013.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars :'], ['', '4013.10.11', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width not exceeding 450mm'], ['', '4013.10.19', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450mm'], ['', '', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries :'], ['', '4013.10.21', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width not exceeding 450mm'], ['', '4013.10.29', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450mm'], ['', '', 'Pumps for liquids, whether or not fitted with a measuring device; liquid elevators.'], ['', '', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for internal combustion piston engines:'], ['3', '8413.30', '- For earth moving machinery :'], ['', '8413.30.11', '- Of reciprocating type'], ['', '8413.30.12', '- Of centrifugal type, with inlet diameter not exceeding 200 mm'], ['', '8413.30.13', '- Of centrifugal type, with inlet diameter exceeding 200 mm'], ['', '8413.30.14', '- Of rotary type'], ['', '8413.30.19', '- Other'], ['', '', '- For motor vehicles :'], ['', '8413.30.21', '- Of reciprocating type'], ['', '8413.30.22', '- Of centrifugal type, with inlet diameter not exceeding 200 mm'], ['', '8413.30.23', '- Of centrifugal type, with inlet diameter exceeding 200 mm'], ['', '8413.30.24', '- Of rotary type'], ['', '8413.30.29', '- Other'], ['4', '8418.21', '- Refrigerators, household type:'], ['', '8418.21.00', '- Compression-type'], ['', '', '- Refrigerators, household type:'], ['5', '8418.29', '- Other'], ['', '8418.29.00', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display counters, show-cases and\nsimilar refrigerating or freezing furniture:'], ['6', '8418.50', '- Not exceeding 200 l capacity :'], ['', '8418.50.11', '- Suitable for medical use'], ['', '8418.50.19', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Exceeding 200 l capacity :'], ['', '8418.50.21', '- Suitable for medical use'], ['', '8418.50.22', '- Refrigerating chamber'], ['', '8418.50.29', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Centrifuges, including centrifugal dryers; filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus, for liquids or gases'], ['', '', '- Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for liquids:'], ['', '', '- Oil or petrol-filters for internal combustion engines:'], ['7', '8421.23', '- For earth moving machinery :'], ['', '8421.23.11', '- Oil filter'], ['', '8421.23.19', '- Other'], ['', '', '- For motor vehicles of chapter 87 :'], ['', '8421.23.21', '- Oil filter'], ['', '8421.23.29', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus for gases:'], ['8', '8421.31', '- Intake air filters for internal combustion engines:'], ['', '8421.31.10', '- For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8421.31.20', '- For motor vehicles of chapter 87'], ['', '', 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the machinery of headings 84.25 to\n84.30.'], ['9', '8431.41', '- Of machinery of heading 84.26, 84.29 or 84.30:'], ['', '8431.41.00', '- Buckets, shovels, grabs and grips'], ['10', '8431.49', '- Other:'], ['', '8431.49.20', '- Cutting edges or end bits for scrapers, graders or levellers'], ['', '8431.49.30', '- Of road rollers'], ['', '8431.49.90', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Household or laundry-type washing machines, including machines which both wash\nand dry.'], ['', '', '- Machines, each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg:'], ['11', '8450.11', '- Fully-automatic machines :'], ['', '8450.11.10', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '8450.11.20', '- Each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 6 kg'], ['12', '8450.19', '- Other :'], ['', '8450.19.10', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '8450.19.20', '- Each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '', 'Electrical ignition or starting equipment of a kind used for spark-ignition or\ncompression-ignition internal combustion engines (for example, ignition magnetos,\nmagneto-dynamos, ignition coils, sparking plugs and glow plugs, starter motors);\ngenerators (f'], ['13', '8511.40', '- Starter motors and dual purpose starter-generators:'], ['', '8511.40.10', '- Suitable for aircraft engines'], ['', '8511.40.20', '- Other unassembled starter motors'], ['', '8511.40.30', '- Starter for vehicles of heading 87.01 to 87.05'], ['', '8511.40.40', '- Other, not fully assembled'], ['', '8511.40.90', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters; electric space\nheating apparatus and soil heating apparatus; electro-thermic hair-dressing apparatus\n(for example, hair dryers, hair curlers, curling tong heaters) and hand dryers; ele'], ['14', '8516.50', '- Microwave ovens'], ['', '8516.50.00', '- Microwave ovens'], ['', '', 'Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers, whether or not mounted in their\nenclosures; headphones and earphones, whether or not combined with a microphone,\nand sets consisting of a microphone and one or more loudspeakers; audio-frequency\nelectric ampl'], ['15', '8518.50', '- Electric sound amplifier sets :'], ['', '8518.50.10', '- Of an output of 240 W or more'], ['', '8518.50.20', '- Sound amplifier sets combined with loudspeaker line for broadcasting, having\nvoltage of 50 V to 100 V'], ['', '8518.50.90', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Turntables (record-decks), record-players, cassette-players and other sound\nreproduction apparatus, not incorporating a sound recording device.'], ['16', '8519.40', '- Transcribing machines:'], ['', '8519.40.10', '- For special use in cinematographic, television, broadcasting'], ['', '8519.40.90', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Other sound reproducing apparatus:'], ['17', '8519.99', '- Other:'], ['', '8519.99.10', '- Cinematographic sound reproducers'], ['', '8519.99.20', '- For special use in television, broadcasting'], ['', '8519.99.30', '- Compact disc players'], ['', '8519.99.90', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Video recording or reproducing apparatus, whether or not incorporating a video\ntuner.'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['18', '8521.90', '- Laser disc players:'], ['', '8521.90.11', '- For special use in cinematographic, television, broadcasting'], ['', '8521.90.19', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['', '8521.90.91', '- For special use in cinematographic, television, broadcasting'], ['', '8521.90.99', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Transmission apparatus for radio-telephony, radio-telegraphy, radio-broadcasting or\ntelevision, whether or not incorporating reception apparatus or sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus; television cameras; still image video cameras and other\nvideo cam'], ['19', '8525.20', '- Transmission apparatus incorporating reception apparatus :'], ['', '8525.20.10', '- Wireless LAN'], ['', '8525.20.20', '- Internet enabled handphones'], ['', '8525.20.30', '- Internet enabled cellular phones'], ['', '8525.20.40', '- Internet video conferencing equipment'], ['', '8525.20.50', '- Digital radio relay systems'], ['', '8525.20.60', '- Mobile data network'], ['', '8525.20.70', '- Set top boxes which have a communication function'], ['', '8525.20.80', '- Other cellular phones'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['', '8525.20.91', '- Other transmission apparatus for radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '8525.20.92', '- Other transmission apparatus for television'], ['', '8525.20.99', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Reception apparatus for television, whether or not incorporating radio-broadcast\nreceivers or sound or video recording or reproducing apparatus; video monitors and\nvideo projectors.'], ['', '', '- Reception apparatus for television, whether or not incorporating radio-broadcast\nreceivers or sound or video recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['20', '8528.12', '- Colour:'], ['', '8528.12.10', '- Set top boxes which have a communication function'], ['', '8528.12.20', '- Printed circuit assemblies for use with ADP machines'], ['', '8528.12.90', '- Other'], ['21', '8528.30', '- Video projectors :'], ['', '8528.30.10', '- Having capacity for projecting on the screen of 300 inch or more'], ['', '8528.30.20', '- FPD type video and computer data projectors'], ['', '8528.30.90', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the apparatus of headings 85.25 to\n85.28.'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['22', '8529.90', '- Parts (including printed circuit assemblies) of the following: transmission\napparatus other than radio-broadcasting or television transmission; digital still image\nvideo cameras; portable receivers for calling, alerting or paging, paging alert devices'], ['', '8529.90.11', '- For cellular phones'], ['', '8529.90.12', '- Other'], ['', '8529.90.20', '- For decoders, other than those of 8529.90.10'], ['', '', '- Printed circuit boards, assembled, other than those of 8529.90.10 and\n8529.90.20:'], ['', '8529.90.31', '- For the goods of 8527.13, 8527.19, 8527.21, 8527.29, 8527.31, 8527.39 or 8527.90\n(for radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy only)'], ['', '8529.90.32', '- For the goods of subheading 8525.10 or 8525.20 (not for radio-telephony or radio-\ntelegraphy)'], ['', '8529.90.33', '- For the goods of 8525.10, 8525.20, 8527.13, 8527.19, 8527.21, 8527.29, 8527.31,\n8527.39 or 8527.90 (not for radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy)'], ['', '8529.90.34', '- For the goods of 85.26 or 85.26'], ['', '8529.90.35', '- For the goods of 85.26 or 85.28'], ['', '8529.90.36', '- For the goods of 85.26 or 8525.30'], ['', '8529.90.37', '- For the goods of 8527.12 or 8527.32'], ['', '8529.90.39', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['', '8529.90.91', '- For television'], ['', '8529.90.92', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy only'], ['', '8529.90.93', '- Other, of the goods of heading 85.28'], ['', '8529.90.99', '- Other'], ['', '', 'Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting electrical circuits, or for making\nconnections to or in electrical circuits (for example, switches, relays, fuses, surge\nsuppressors, plugs, sockets, lamp-holders, junction boxes), for a voltage not exceedi'], ['23', '8536.50', '- Other switches:'], ['', '8536.50.10', '- Smoke switches'], ['', '8536.50.20', '- Over current and residual current automatic switches'], ['', '8536.50.30', '- High inrush switches and commutators for stoves and ranges; microphone\nswitches; power switches for television or radio receivers; switches for electric fans;\nrotary, slide, see-saw and magnetic switches for air-conditioning machines'], ['', '8536.50.40', '- Miniature switches for rice cookers or oven toasters'], ['', '8536.50.50', '- Electronic AC switches consisting of optically coupled input and output circuits\n(Insulated thyristor AC switches); electronic switches, including temperature\nprotected electronic switches, consisting of a transistor and a logic chip (chip-on-\nchip tec'], ['', '8536.50.60', '- Make and break swiches of a kind used in domestic electrical wiring not exceeding\n500 v and having a rated current carrying capacity not exceeding 20 amp'], ['', '8536.50.90', '- Other'], ['24', '8708.39', '- Other :'], ['', '8708.39.10', '- For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.39.20', '- For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.39.30', '- For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.39.40', '- For ambulance'], ['', '8708.39.50', '- For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.39.60', '- For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.39.70', '- For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['25', '8708.94', '- Other'], ['', '8708.94.11', '- For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractor only)'], ['', '8708.94.12', '- For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.94.19', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Steering columns and steering boxes :'], ['', '8708.94.21', '- For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractor only)'], ['', '8708.94.22', '- For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.94.29', '- Other'], ['', '', '- Other seats, with wooden frames:'], ['26', '9401.69', '- Other:'], ['', '9401.69.10', '- Assembled'], ['', '9401.69.20', '- Not assembled'], ['', '', 'Other furniture and parts thereof.'], ['', '', '- Other wooden furniture:'], ['27', '9403.60', '- Dining and living room sets:'], ['', '9403.60.11', '- Assembled'], ['', '9403.60.19', '- Not assembled'], ['', '', '- Fume cupboards for use in medical laboratory:'], ['', '9403.60.21', '- Assembled'], ['', '9403.60.29', '- Not assembled'], ['', '', '- Board used for checking-in at airport and stations'], ['', '9403.60.31', '- Assembled'], ['', '9403.60.39', '- Not assembled'], ['', '', '- Other:'], ['', '9403.60.91', '- Assembled'], ['', '9403.60.99', '- Not assembled']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Cambodia:  
[['NO.', '', 'HS CODE', '', '', 'DESCRIPTION', ''], ['1', '', '0101.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['2', '', '0103.91', '', '', '- Weighing less than 50 kg', ''], ['3', '', '0103.92', '', '', '- Weighing 50 kg or more', ''], ['4', '0105.92', None, None, '- Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than 2,000g:', None, None], ['5', '', '0105.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['6', '', '0207.11', '', '', '- Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', ''], ['7', '', '0207.12', '', '', '- Not cut in pieces, frozen', ''], ['8', '', '0207.13', '', '', '- Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled', ''], ['9', '', '0207.14', '', '', '- Cuts and offal, frozen:', ''], ['10', '', '0207.32', '', '', '- Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled:', ''], ['11', '', '0207.33', '', '', '- Not cut in pieces, frozen:', ''], ['12', '', '0207.36', '', '', '- Other, frozen:', ''], ['13', '', '0301.93', '', '', '- Carp:', ''], ['14', '', '0301.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['15', '', '0305.59', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['16', '', '0602.10', '', '', '- Unrooted cuttings and slips:', ''], ['17', '', '0602.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['18', '', '0603.10', '', '', '- Fresh:', ''], ['19', '', '0702.00', '', '', '- Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.', ''], ['20', '', '0703.10', '', '', '- Onions and shallots:', ''], ['21', '', '0703.20', '', '', '- Garlic:', ''], ['22', '', '0704.10', '', '', '- Cauliflowers and headed broccoli:', ''], ['23', '', '0704.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['24', '', '0705.11', '', '', '- Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce)', ''], ['25', '', '0705.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['26', '', '0706.10', '', '', '- Carrots and turnips:', ''], ['27', '', '0706.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['28', '', '0707.00', '', '', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled.', ''], ['29', '', '0708.20', '', '', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', ''], ['30', '', '0708.90', '', '', '- Other leguminous vegetables', ''], ['31', '', '0801.11', '', '', '- Desiccated', ''], ['32', '', '0801.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['33', '', '0804.30', '', '', '- Pineapples', ''], ['34', '', '0804.50', '', '', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens', ''], ['35', '', '0805.10', '', '', '- Oranges', ''], ['36', '', '0807.11', '', '', '- Watermelons', ''], ['37', '', '0807.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['38', '', '0902.40', '', '', '- Other black tea (fermented) and other partly fermented tea:', ''], ['39', '', '0904.11', '', '', '- Neither crushed nor ground:', ''], ['40', '0904.20', None, None, '', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta, dried or crushed or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'ground:', None], ['41', '', '1001.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['42', '', '1102.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['43', '', '1106.20', '', '', '- Of sago, roots or tubers of heading 07.14:', ''], ['44', '', '1211.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['45', '', '1902.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['46', '', '1902.30', '', '', '- Other pasta:', ''], ['47', '', '1905.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['48', '', '2002.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['49', '', '2008.11', '', '', '- Ground-nuts:', ''], ['50', '', '2103.10', '', '', '- Soya sauce', ''], ['51', '', '2103.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['52', '', '2523.10', '', '', '- Cement clinkers:', ''], ['53', '', '2523.21', '', '', '- White Cement, whether or not artificially coloured', ''], ['54', '', '2523.29', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['55', '', '2523.30', '', '', '- Aluminium Cement', ''], ['56', '', '2523.90', '', '', '- Other Hydraulic Cement', ''], ['57', '', '2710.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['58', '2904.10', None, None, '- Derivatives containing only sulpho groups, their salts and ethyl esters', None, None], ['59', '', '2904.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['60', '', '3215.11', '', '', '- Black:', ''], ['61', '', '3215.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['62', '', '3304.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['63', '', '3306.10', '', '', '- Dentifrices:', ''], ['64', '', '3307.30', '', '', '- Perfumed bath salts and other bath preparations', ''], ['65', '', '3401.11', '', '', '- For toilet use, (including medicated products):', ''], ['66', '', '3401.20', '', '', '- Soap in other forms:', ''], ['67', '3401.30', None, None, '- Organic surface-active products and preparations for washing the skin, in the\nform of liquid or cream and put up for retail sale, whether or not containing soap', None, None], ['68', '', '3402.20', '', '', '- Preparations put up for retail sale:', ''], ['69', '', '3402.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['70', '', '3809.92', '', '', '- Of a kind used in the paper or like industries', ''], ['71', '3812.30', None, None, '- Anti-oxidising preparations and other compound stabilisers for rubber or plastics:', None, None], ['72', '3917.31', None, None, '- Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum burst pressure of 27.6 MPa:', None, None], ['73', '', '3920.10', '', '', '- Of polymers of ethylene:', ''], ['74', '', '3921.11', '', '', '- Of polymers of styrene:', ''], ['75', '', '3922.20', '', '', '- Lavatory seats and covers:', ''], ['76', '', '3923.10', '', '', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar articles:', ''], ['77', '', '3923.29', '', '', '- Of other plastics:', ''], ['78', '', '3923.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['79', '', '3924.10', '', '', '- Tableware and kitchenware', ''], ['80', '', '4006.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['81', '', '4008.11', '', '', '- Plates, sheets, and strip', ''], ['82', '', '4010.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['83', '', '4016.93', '', '', '- Gaskets, washers and other seals:', ''], ['84', '', '4104.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['85', '', '4802.69', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['86', '', '4804.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['87', '', '4805.40', '', '', '- Filter paper and paperboard', ''], ['88', '4810.31', None, None, '', '- Bleached uniformly throughout the mass and of which more than 95% by weight', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'of the total fibre content consists of wood fibres obtained by a chemical process,', None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'and weighing 150 g/m2 or less:', None], ['89', '', '4819.10', '', '', '- Cartons, boxes and cases, of corrugated paper or paperboard', ''], ['90', '', '4821.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['91', '', '4822.10', '', '', '- Of a kind used for winding textile yarn', ''], ['92', '', '4823.12', '', '', '- Self-adhesive:', ''], ['93', '', '4823.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['94', '', '4908.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['95', '', '4911.10', '', '', '- Trade advertising material, commercial catalogues and the like', ''], ['96', '', '5208.33', '', '', '- 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', ''], ['97', '', '5209.19', '', '', '- Other fabrics', ''], ['98', '', '5210.39', '', '', '- Other fabrics', ''], ['99', '', '5307.10', '', '', '- Single', ''], ['100', '', '5402.61', '', '', '- Of nylon or other polyamides', ''], ['101', '5407.10', None, None, '', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of nylon or other polyamides or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'of polyesters:', None], ['102', '', '5407.54', '', '', '- Printed', ''], ['103', '', '5408.10', '', '', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of viscose rayon:', ''], ['104', '', '5408.31', '', '', '- Unbleached or bleached:', ''], ['105', '', '5506.20', '', '', '- Of polyesters', ''], ['106', '', '5509.91', '', '', '- Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal hair:', ''], ['107', '', '5513.19', '', '', '- Other woven fabrics', ''], ['108', '', '5514.29', '', '', '- Other woven fabrics', ''], ['109', '', '5604.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['110', '5606.00', None, None, 'Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of heading 54.04 or 54.05, gimped (other than\nthose of heading 56.05 and gimped horsehair yarn); chenille yarn (including flock\nchenille yarn); loop wale-yarn.', None, None], ['111', '', '5607.10', '', '', '- Of jute or other textile bast fibres of heading 53.03', ''], ['112', '', '5802.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['113', '', '5804.30', '', '', '- Hand-made lace', ''], ['114', '5806.20', None, None, '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing by weight 5% or more of elastomeric yarn or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'rubber thread', None], ['115', '', '5606.31', '', '', '- Of cotton:', ''], ['116', '', '5807.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['117', '5809.00', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of metal thread and woven fabrics of metallised yarn of heading\n56.05,of a kind used in apparel, as furnishing fabrics or for similar purposes,\nnotelsewhere specified or included.', None, None], ['118', '5901.10', None, None, '', '- Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind usedfor the', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'outer covers of books or the like', None], ['119', '', '5903.10', '', '', '- With poly(vinyl chloride):', ''], ['120', '', '6006.33', '', '', '- Of yarns of different colours:', ''], ['121', '', '6116.10', '', '', '- Impregnated, coated or covered with plastics or rubber', ''], ['122', '', '6205.20', '', '', '- Of cotton', ''], ['123', '', '6205.90', '', '', '- Of other textile materials:', ''], ['124', '', '6207.99', '', '', '- Of other textile materials:', ''], ['125', '', '6212.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['126', '', '6215.90', '', '', '- Of other textile materials:', ''], ['127', '6302.60', None, None, '- Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of terry towelling or similar terry fabrics, of cotton', None, None], ['128', '', '6306.19', '', '', '- Of other textile materials:', ''], ['129', '', '6307.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['130', '', '6404.20', '', '', '- Footwear with outer soles of leather or composition leather:', ''], ['131', '', '6902.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['132', '', '6903.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['133', '', '6908.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['134', '', '6911.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['135', '', '7013.29', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['136', '', '7301.20', '', '', '- Angles, shapes and sections', ''], ['137', '', '7302.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['138', '', '7303.00', '', '', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron.', ''], ['139', '', '7306.10', '', '', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines', ''], ['140', '7318.15', None, None, '- Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers:', None, None], ['141', '', '7318.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['142', '', '7320.20', '', '', '- Helical springs:', ''], ['143', '', '7321.13', '', '', '- For solid fuel', ''], ['144', '', '7321.81', '', '', '- For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels', ''], ['145', '', '7323.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['146', '', '7411.29', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['147', '7413.00', None, None, '', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, of copper, not electrically', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'insulated.', None], ['148', '', '7610.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['149', '', '7615.19', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['150', '7616.10', None, None, '- Nails, tacks, staples (other than those of heading 83.05), screws, bolts, nuts,\nscrew hooks, rivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers and similar articles:', None, None], ['151', '', '7904.00', '', '', 'Zinc bars, rods, profiles and wire.', ''], ['152', '', '8203.30', '', '', '- Metal cutting shears and similar tools', ''], ['153', '', '8207.30', '', '', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or punching', ''], ['154', '', '8208.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['155', '', '8213.00', '', '', "Scissors, tailors' shears and similar shears, and blades therefor.", ''], ['156', '', '8214.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['157', '', '8306.29', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['158', '', '8306.30', '', '', '- Photograph, picture or similar frames; mirrors', ''], ['159', '', '8402.20', '', '', '- Super-heated water boilers:', ''], ['160', '', '8404.90', '', '', '- Parts:', ''], ['161', '', '8407.21', '', '', '- Outboard motors:', ''], ['162', '8407.33', None, None, '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc:', None, None], ['163', '', '8407.90', '', '', '- Other engines:', ''], ['164', '8409.91', None, None, '', '- Suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'piston engines:', None], ['165', '', '8413.19', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['166', '', '8413.91', '', '', '- Of pumps:', ''], ['167', '', '8414.30', '', '', '- Compressors of a kind used in refrigerating equipment:', ''], ['168', '', '8414.59', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['169', '', '8418.29', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['170', '', '8418.69', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['171', '', '8419.50', '', '', '- Heat exchange units:', ''], ['172', '', '8421.23', '', '', '- Oil or petrol-filters for internal combustion engines:', ''], ['173', '', '8421.31', '', '', '- Intake air filters for internal combustion engines:', ''], ['174', '', '8421.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['175', '8422.30', None, None, '- Machinery for filling, closing, sealing, or labelling bottles, cans, boxes, bags or\nother containers; machinery for capsuling bottles, jars, tubes and similar containers;\nmachinery for aerating beverages', None, None], ['176', '8422.40', None, None, '', '- Other packing or wrapping machinery (including heat-shrink wrapping', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'machinery)', None], ['177', '8423.10', None, None, '- Personal weighing machines, including baby scales; household scales:', None, None], ['178', '', '8424.20', '', '', '- Spray guns and similar appliances:', ''], ['179', '', '8429.40', '', '', '- Tamping machines and road rollers:', ''], ['180', '', '8429.51', '', '', '- Front-end shovel loaders', ''], ['181', '', '8441.20', '', '', '- Machines for making bags, sacks or envelopes:', ''], ['182', '', '8441.90', '', '', '- Parts:', ''], ['183', '', '8443.59', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['184', '', '8443.90', '', '', '- Parts:', ''], ['185', '8444.00', None, None, 'Machines for extruding, drawing, texturing or cutting man-made textile materials.', None, None], ['186', '', '8445.30', '', '', '- Textile doubling or twisting machines:', ''], ['187', '', '8448.51', '', '', '- Sinkers, needles and other articles used in forming stitches', ''], ['188', '', '8450.11', '', '', '- Fully-automatic machines:', ''], ['189', '', '8451.40', '', '', '- Washing, bleaching or dyeing machines:', ''], ['190', '', '8452.10', '', '', '- Sewing machines of the household type', ''], ['191', '', '8452.90', '', '', '- Other parts of sewing machines:', ''], ['192', '', '8453.80', '', '', '- Other machinery:', ''], ['193', '', '8459.29', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['194', '', '8460.31', '', '', '- Numerically controlled:', ''], ['195', '', '8471.70', '', '', '- Storage units: [ITA1/A-016] [ex ITA/B-194]', ''], ['196', '8471.80', None, None, '- Other units of automatic data processing machines: [ITA1/A-017]', None, None], ['197', '', '8471.90', '', '', '- Other: [ITA1/A-018] [ex ITA1/B-194]', ''], ['198', '', '8472.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['199', '', '8473.40', '', '', '- Parts and accessories of the machines of heading 84.72:', ''], ['200', '8473.50', None, None, '- Parts and accessories equally suitable for use with machines of two or more of\nthe headings 84.69 to 84.72: [ITA1/A-023] [ITA1/B-199]', None, None], ['201', '', '8474.90', '', '', '- Parts:', ''], ['202', '8483.30', None, None, '- Bearing housings, not incorporating ball or roller bearings, plain shaft bearings:', None, None], ['203', '8484.10', None, None, '', '- Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting combined with other material or of', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'two or more layers of metal', None], ['204', '', '8485.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['205', '', '8501.31', '', '', '- Of an output not exceeding 750 W:', ''], ['206', '', '8507.20', '', '', '- Other lead-acid accumulators:', ''], ['207', '', '8509.10', '', '', '- Vacuum cleaners, including dry and wet vacuum cleaners', ''], ['208', '', '8515.80', '', '', '- Other machines and apparatus:', ''], ['209', '', '8516.33', '', '', '- Hand-drying apparatus', ''], ['210', '8516.60', None, None, '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters:', None, None], ['211', '', '8517.21', '', '', '- Facsimile machines [ITA1/A-028]', ''], ['212', '', '8518.10', '', '', '- Microphones and stands therefor:', ''], ['213', '', '8518.29', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['214', '', '8518.40', '', '', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers:', ''], ['215', '', '8521.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['216', '', '8526.10', '', '', '- Radar apparatus:', ''], ['217', '', '8528.30', '', '', '- Video projectors:', ''], ['218', '', '8535.30', '', '', '- Isolating switches and make-and-break switches:', ''], ['219', '', '8536.20', '', '', '- Automatic circuit breakers:', ''], ['220', '', '8539.10', '', '', '- Sealed beam lamp units:', ''], ['221', '', '8539.31', '', '', '- Fluorescent, hot cathode:', ''], ['222', '8541.40', None, None, '', '- Photosensitive semiconductor devices, including photovoltaic cells whether or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'not assembled in modules or made up into panels; light emitting diodes: [ITA1/A-', None], [None, None, None, None, None, '082]', None], ['223', '', '8543.89', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['224', '', '8544.51', '', '', '- Fitted with connectors:', ''], ['225', '8609.00', None, None, 'Containers (including containers for transport of fluids) specially designed and\nequipped for carriage by one or more modes of transport.', None, None], ['226', '', '8703.31', '', '', '- Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc:', ''], ['227', '', '8703.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['228', '', '8704.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['229', '', '8707.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['230', '', '8708.29', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['231', '', '8708.39', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['232', '8708.50', None, None, '', '- Drive-axles with differential, whether or not provided with other transmission', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'components:', None], ['233', '', '8708.60', '', '', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof:', ''], ['234', '', '8708.91', '', '', '- Radiators:', ''], ['235', '', '8708.93', '', '', '- Clutches and parts thereof:', ''], ['236', '', '8708.94', '', '', '- Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes:', ''], ['237', '', '8708.99', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['238', '', '8711.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['239', '8712.00', None, None, 'Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery tricycles), not motorised.', None, None], ['240', '', '8716.31', '', '', '- Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers', ''], ['241', '', '8716.80', '', '', '- Other vehicles:', ''], ['242', '', '9001.50', '', '', '- Spectacle lenses of other materials', ''], ['243', '', '9010.60', '', '', '- Projection screens:', ''], ['244', '9019.10', None, None, '', '- Mechano-therapy appliances; massage apparatus; psychological aptitude-testing', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'apparatus:', None], ['245', '9020.00', None, None, '', 'Other breathing appliances and gas masks, excluding protective masks having', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'neither mechanical parts nor replaceable filters.', None], ['246', '', '9022.12', '', '', '- Computed tomography apparatus', ''], ['247', '', '9022.30', '', '', '- X-ray tubes:', ''], ['248', '', '9024.10', '', '', '- Machines and appliances for testing metals:', ''], ['249', '', '9026.20', '', '', '- For measuring or checking pressure: [ITA1/A-104]', ''], ['250', '', '9027.80', '', '', '- Other instruments and apparatus: [ITA1/A-110]', ''], ['251', '', '9106.10', '', '', '- Time-registers; time-recorders', ''], ['252', '', '9401.50', '', '', '- Seats of cane, osier, bamboo or similar materials:', ''], ['253', '', '9401.80', '', '', '- Other seats:', ''], ['254', '', '9402.10', '', '', "- Dentists', barbers' or similar chairs and parts thereof:", ''], ['255', '', '9402.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['256', '', '9403.50', '', '', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the bedroom:', ''], ['257', '', '9403.70', '', '', '- Furniture of plastics:', ''], ['258', '', '9404.21', '', '', '- Of cellular rubber or plastics, whether or not covered', ''], ['259', '', '9404.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['260', '', '9503.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['261', '', '9507.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['262', '', '9603.21', '', '', '- Tooth brushes, including dental-plate brushes', ''], ['263', '', '9606.29', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['264', '', '9606.30', '', '', '- Button moulds and other parts of buttons; button blanks', ''], ['265', '', '9612.10', '', '', '- Ribbons:', '']]
APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Indonesia:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0207.14', '- - Cuts and offal, frozen'], ['', '0207.14.20.00', '-- Thighs'], ['2', '0302.31', '- - Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga)'], ['', '0302.31.00.00', '- - Albacore or longfinned tunas'], ['3', '0302.32', '- - Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['', '0302.32.00.00', '--Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['4', '0302.33', '- - Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['', '0302.33.00.00', '--Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['5', '0302.34', '- - Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['', '0302.34.00.00', '--Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['6', '0302.35', '- - Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus)'], ['', '0302.35.00.00', '--Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus)'], ['7', '0302.61', '- - Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella'], ['', '0302.61.00.00', '--Sardines ( Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops'], ['8', '0303.41', '- - Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnas alalunga)'], ['', '0303.41.00.00', '--Albacore or longfinned tunas ( Thunnus'], ['9', '0303.42', '- - Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['', '0303.42.00.00', '--Yellow fin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['10', '0303.43', '- - Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['', '0303.43.00.00', '--Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['11', '0303.44', '- - Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['', '0303.44.00.00', '--Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['12', '0303.45', '- - Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus)'], ['', '0303.45.00.00', '--Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus)'], ['13', '0303.71', '- - Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella'], ['', '0303.71.00.00', '--Sardines ( Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops'], ['14', '0306.11', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp.,'], ['', '0306.11.00.00', '--Rock lobsters and other sea crawfish'], ['15', '0306.12', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.)'], ['', '0306.12.00.00', '--Lobsters (Homarus spp.)'], ['16', '0306.13', '- - Shrimps and prawns'], ['', '0306.13.00.00', '--Shrimps and prawns'], ['17', '0306.21', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp.,'], ['', '0306.21.30.00', '----Fresh or chilled'], ['18', '0306.23', '- - Shrimps and prawns:'], ['', '0306.23.30.00', '---Fresh or chilled'], ['19', '0511.91', '- - Products of fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic'], ['', '0511.91.20.00', '---Roes'], ['20', '0805.20', "'- Mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas); clementines, wilkings and\nsimilar citrus hybrids"], ['', '0805.20.00.00', '-Mandarins ( including tangerines and'], ['21', '1302.39', '- - Other:'], ['', '1302.39.10.00', '---Carageenan'], ['22', '2207.10', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80% vol or\nhigher'], ['', '2207.10.00.00', '-Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic'], ['23', '2207.20', '- Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength:'], ['', '2207.20.11.00', '---Ethyl alcohol strength by volume of'], ['', '2207.20.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '2207.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['24', '2710.19', '- - Other, Medium oils and preparations.'], ['', '2710.19.24.00', '----Lubricating oils for aircraft engines'], ['', '2710.19.25.00', '----Other lubricating oils'], ['', '2710.19.26.00', '----Lubricating greases'], ['', '2710.19.27.00', '----Hydraulic brake fluid'], ['25', '2815.11', '- - Solid'], ['', '2815.11.00.00', '--Solid'], ['26', '2815.12', '- - In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['', '2815.12.00.00', '--In aqueous solution ( soda lye or liquid'], ['27', '2817.00', 'Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide.'], ['', '2817.00.10.00', '-Zinc oxide'], ['28', '2827.36', '- - Of zinc'], ['', '2827.36.00.00', '--Of zinc'], ['29', '2833.22', '- - Of aluminium:'], ['', '2833.22.10.00', '---Commercial grades'], ['', '2833.22.90.00', '---Other'], ['30', '2835.31', '- - Sodium triphosphate (sodium tripolyphosphate)'], ['', '2835.31.00.00', '--Sodium triphosphate ( sodium'], ['31', '2836.50', '- Calcium carbonate'], ['', '2836.50.90.00', '--Other'], ['32', '2849.10', '- Of calcium'], ['', '2849.10.00.00', '-Of calcium'], ['33', '2917.31', '- - Dibutyl orthophthalates'], ['', '2917.31.00.00', '--Dibutyl orthophthalates'], ['34', '2917.32', '- - Dioctyl orthophthalates'], ['', '2917.32.00.00', '--Dioctyl orthophthalates'], ['35', '2917.34', '- - Other esters of orthophthalic acid'], ['', '2917.34.00.00', '--Other esters of orthophthalic acid'], ['36', '2918.29', '- - Other:'], ['', '2918.29.10.00', '---Alkyl sulphonic ester of phenol'], ['37', '2924.29', '- - Other:'], ['', '2924.29.90.10', '----Asetaminophen ( paracetamol );'], ['38', '2925.11', '- - Saccharin and its salts'], ['', '2925.11.00.00', '--Saccharin and its salts'], ['39', '2941.10', '- Penicillins and their derivatives with a penicillanic acid structure; salts thereof:'], ['', '2941.10.11.00', '---Non-sterile'], ['', '2941.10.20.00', '--Ampicillin and its salts'], ['40', '3003.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a penicillanic acid'], ['', '3003.10.10.00', '--Containing amoxicillin (INN) or its salts'], ['', '3003.10.20.00', '--Containing ampicillin (INN) or its salts'], ['', '3003.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['41', '3004.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a penicillanic acid'], ['', '3004.10.13.00', '---Containing ampicillin or its salts, for'], ['', '3004.10.14.00', '---Containing amoxycillin or its salts, for'], ['42', '3808.10', '- Insecticides:'], ['', '3808.10.12.00', '---Other'], ['43', '3901.10', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94:'], ['', '3901.10.23.00', '---Other, used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3901.10.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '3901.10.91.00', '---Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3901.10.99.00', '---Other'], ['44', '3901.20', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or more:'], ['', '3901.20.22.00', '---Other, used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3901.20.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '3901.20.90.00', '--Other form'], ['45', '3902.10', '- Polypropylene:'], ['', '3902.10.10.00', '--In powder form'], ['', '3902.10.21.00', '---Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3902.10.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '3902.10.91.00', '---Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3902.10.99.00', '---Other'], ['46', '3903.11', '- - Expansible:'], ['', '3903.11.10.00', '---In powder form'], ['', '3903.11.20.00', '---Granules'], ['', '3903.11.90.00', '---Other'], ['47', '3903.19', '- - Other:'], ['', '3903.19.10.00', '---In powder form'], ['', '3903.19.20.00', '---Granules'], ['', '3903.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['48', '3903.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3903.90.10.00', '--In powder form'], ['', '3903.90.20.00', '--Granules'], ['', '3903.90.30.00', '--In aquaeous dispersion'], ['', '3903.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['49', '3904.10', '- Poly(vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other substances:'], ['', '3904.10.20.00', '--PVC resin emulsion process in powder form,\n--Granules.'], ['', '3904.10.31.00', '---Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3904.10.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '3904.10.40.00', '--Other, in powder form'], ['', '3904.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['50', '3904.21', '- - Non-plasticised:'], ['', '3904.21.10.00', '---In powder form, granules.'], ['', '3904.21.21.00', '----Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3904.21.29.00', '----Other'], ['', '3904.21.90.00', '---Other forms'], ['51', '3904.22', '- - Plasticised:'], ['', '3904.22.10.00', '---In powder form'], ['', '3904.22.21.00', '----Used in the manufacture of telephonic or'], ['', '3904.22.29.00', '----Other'], ['', '3904.22.90.00', '---Other forms'], ['52', '3904.30', '- Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate copolymers:'], ['', '3904.30.90.00', '--Other'], ['53', '3904.40', '- Other vinyl chloride copolymers:'], ['', '3904.40.10.00', '--In powder form'], ['', '3904.40.90.00', '--Other'], ['54', '3905.12', '- - In aqueous dispersion'], ['', '3905.12.00.00', '--In aqueous dispersions'], ['55', '3905.19', '- - Other:'], ['', '3905.19.10.00', '---Liquids or pastes'], ['56', '3905.21', '- - In aqueous dispersion'], ['', '3905.21.00.00', '--In aqueous dispersions'], ['57', '3905.29', '- - Other:'], ['', '3905.29.10.00', '---Liquids or pastes'], ['58', '3906.10', '- Poly(methyl methacrylate):'], ['', '3906.10.10.00', '--In aquaeous dispersion'], ['', '3906.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['59', '3906.90', '- Other, Copolymers.'], ['', '3906.90.92.00', '---Other liquids or pastes'], ['60', '3907.40', '- Polycarbonates:'], ['', '3907.40.20.00', '--Other liquids or pastes'], ['61', '3907.50', '- Alkyd resins:'], ['', '3907.50.10.00', '--Liquids or pastes'], ['62', '3917.21', '- - Of polymers of ethylene:'], ['', '3917.21.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural'], ['', '3917.21.90.00', '---Other'], ['63', '3917.22', '- - Of polymers of propylene:'], ['', '3917.22.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural'], ['', '3917.22.90.00', '---Other'], ['64', '3917.23', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride:'], ['', '3917.23.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural watering.'], ['', '3917.23.90.00', '---Other'], ['65', '3917.29', '- - Of other plastics:'], ['', '3917.29.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural'], ['', '3917.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['66', '3917.31', '- - Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum'], ['', '3917.31.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural watering.'], ['', '3917.31.90.00', '---Other'], ['67', '3917.32', '- - Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials, without\nfittings:'], ['', '3917.32.10.00', '---Sausage and ham casings'], ['', '3917.32.20.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural'], ['', '3917.32.90.00', '---Other'], ['68', '3917.33', '- - Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials, with\nfittings:'], ['', '3917.33.10.00', '---Porous tubes suitable for agricultural watering.'], ['', '3917.33.90.00', '---Other'], ['69', '3918.10', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride, Floor covering.'], ['', '3918.10.11.00', '---Tiles'], ['', '3918.10.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '3918.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['70', '3918.90', '- Of other plastics, Floor covering.'], ['', '3918.90.12.00', '---Tiles, of other plastics'], ['', '3918.90.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '3918.90.99.00', '---Other'], ['71', '3919.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3919.90.11.00', '---Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3919.90.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '3919.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['72', '3920.10', '- Of polymers of ethylene:'], ['', '3920.10.10.00', '--Tapes used in the manufacture of telephonic'], ['', '3920.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['73', '3920.20', '- Of polymers of propylene:'], ['', '3920.20.10.00', '--Tapes used in the manufacture of telephonic'], ['', '3920.20.20.00', '--BOPP film, Used as an adhesive by melting.'], ['', '3920.20.31.00', '---Of polypropylene'], ['', '3920.20.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '3920.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['74', '3920.30', '- Of polymers of styrene:'], ['', '3920.30.10.00', '--Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.30.90.00', '--Other, Of polymers of vinyl chloride.'], ['75', '3920.43', '- - Containing by weight not less than 6% of plasticisers.'], ['', '3920.43.90.00', '---Other'], ['76', '3920.49', '- - Other:'], ['', '3920.49.10.00', '---Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3920.49.90.00', '---Other, Of acrylic polymers.'], ['77', '3920.51', '- - Of poly (methyl methacrylate)'], ['', '3920.51.00.00', '--Of poly(methyl methacrylate)'], ['78', '3920.59', '- - Other'], ['', '3920.59.00.00', '--Other'], ['79', '3920.61', '- - Of polycarbonates:'], ['', '3920.61.10.00', '---Film'], ['', '3920.61.20.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.61.90.00', '---Other'], ['80', '3920.62', '- - Of poly (ethylene terephthalate):'], ['', '3920.62.10.00', '---Film'], ['', '3920.62.20.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.62.90.00', '---Other'], ['81', '3920.63', '- - Of unsaturated polyesters:'], ['', '3920.63.10.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.63.90.00', '---Other'], ['82', '3920.69', '- - Of other polyesters:'], ['', '3920.69.90.00', '---Other'], ['83', '3920.71', '- - Of regenerated cellulose:'], ['', '3920.71.10.00', '---Cellophane film'], ['', '3920.71.40.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.71.90.00', '---Other'], ['84', '3920.72', '- - Of vulcanised fibre:'], ['', '3920.72.10.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.72.90.00', '---Other'], ['85', '3920.73', '- - Of cellulose acetate:'], ['', '3920.73.11.00', '----Cellulose acetate, plasticized'], ['', '3920.73.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '3920.73.90.00', '---Other'], ['86', '3920.79', '- - Of other cellulose derivatives:'], ['', '3920.79.10.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.79.90.00', '---Other'], ['87', '3920.91', '- - Of poly(vinyl butyral):'], ['', '3920.91.90.00', '---Other'], ['88', '3920.92', '- - Of polyamides:'], ['', '3920.92.10.00', '---Of nylon 6'], ['', '3920.92.20.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.92.90.00', '---Other'], ['89', '3920.93', '- - Of amino-resins:'], ['', '3920.93.11.00', '----Of melamine resins; of other amino-resins'], ['', '3920.93.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '3920.93.90.00', '---Other'], ['90', '3920.94', '- - Of phenolic resins:'], ['', '3920.94.20.00', '---Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.94.90.00', '---Other'], ['91', '3920.99', '- - Of other plastics:'], ['', '3920.99.10.00', '---Corrugated sheets and plates'], ['92', '3921.11', '- - Of polymers of styrene:'], ['', '3921.11.10.00', '---Plates and sheets'], ['', '3921.11.90.00', '---Other'], ['93', '3921.12', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride:'], ['', '3921.12.11.00', '----Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3921.12.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '3921.12.91.00', '----Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3921.12.99.00', '----Other'], ['94', '3921.13', '- - Of polyurethanes:'], ['', '3921.13.10.00', '---Plates and sheets'], ['', '3921.13.90.00', '---Other'], ['95', '3921.14', '- - Of regenerated cellulose:'], ['', '3921.14.11.00', '----Cellophane used in the manufactured of'], ['', '3921.14.12.00', '----Other, used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3921.14.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '3921.14.91.00', '----Used in the manufacture of adhesive tape'], ['', '3921.14.99.00', '----Other'], ['96', '3921.19', '- - Of other plastic:'], ['', '3921.19.11.00', '----Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3921.19.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '3921.19.91.00', '----Tapes used in the manufacture of'], ['', '3921.19.99.00', '----Other'], ['97', '3921.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3921.90.20.00', '--Plates and sheets'], ['', '3921.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['98', '3922.10', '- Baths, shower-baths, sinks and wash-basins'], ['', '3922.10.00.00', '-Baths, shower-baths, sinks and wash-basins'], ['99', '3922.20', '- Lavatory seats and covers:'], ['', '3922.20.10.00', '--Covers'], ['', '3922.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['100', '3922.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3922.90.20.00', '--Parts of flushing cisterns'], ['', '3922.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['101', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar articles:'], ['', '3923.10.10.00', '--Boxes used for cinematographic films, tapes, discs.'], ['', '3923.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['102', '3923.21', '- - Of polymers of ethylene:'], ['', '3923.21.10.00', '---Aseptic bags with aluminium foil re-'], ['', '3923.21.90.00', '---Other'], ['103', '3923.29', '- - Of other plastics:'], ['', '3923.29.10.00', '---Aseptic bags with aluminium foil re-'], ['', '3923.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['104', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar articles:'], ['', '3923.30.10.00', '--Toothpaste tubes container'], ['', '3923.30.90.00', '--Other'], ['105', '3923.90', '- Other'], ['', '3923.90.00.00', '-Other'], ['106', '3924.10', '- Tableware and kitchenware'], ['', '3924.10.00.00', '-Tableware and kitchenware'], ['107', '3924.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3924.90.10.00', '--Bed pans, urinals ( portable type ) and'], ['', '3924.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['108', '3925.10', '- Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, of a capacity exceeding 300 l'], ['', '3925.10.00.00', '-Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar'], ['109', '3925.30', '- Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts\nthereof'], ['', '3925.30.00.00', '-Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds)'], ['110', '3925.90', '- Other'], ['', '3925.90.00.00', '-Other'], ['111', '3926.10', '- Office or school supplies:'], ['', '3926.10.10.00', '--School supplies'], ['', '3926.10.20.00', '--Office supplies'], ['112', '3926.20', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and\nmitts):'], ['', '3926.20.20.00', '--Gloves'], ['', '3926.20.30.00', "--Babies' bib, shoulder pads or shields"], ['', '3926.20.40.00', '--Aprons and other articles of apparel'], ['', '3926.20.50.00', '--Articles of apparel used for the protection'], ['', '3926.20.90.00', '--Other, including belts'], ['113', '3926.30', '- Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the like'], ['', '3926.30.00.00', '-Fittings for furniture,coachwork or the like'], ['114', '3926.40', '- Statuettes and other ornamental articles'], ['', '3926.40.00.00', '-Statuettes and other ornamental articles'], ['115', '3926.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3926.90.10.00', '--Floats for fishing nets'], ['', '3926.90.20.00', '--Fans and handscreens, frames and handles'], ['', '3926.90.31.00', '---Colostomy, ileostomy and urine bags'], ['', '3926.90.33.00', '---Poison mosquito nets'], ['', '3926.90.39.00', '---Other, safety and protective devices.'], ['', '3926.90.41.00', '---Police shields'], ['', '3926.90.42.00', '---Protective masks and similar articles for'], ['', '3926.90.43.00', '---Noise reducing devices and covers for the'], ['', '3926.90.44.00', '---Life saving cushions for protection of'], ['', '3926.90.49.00', '---Other'], ['', '3926.90.51.00', '---Oil spill booms'], ['', '3926.90.55.00', '---Plastic J-hooks and bunch blocks for'], ['', '3926.90.59.00', '---Other'], ['', '3926.90.60.00', '--Nipple former, breastshells, nipple shields,'], ['', '3926.90.70.00', '--Corset busks and similar supports for'], ['', '3926.90.91.00', '---Poultry feeders'], ['', '3926.90.92.00', '---Cards for jewellery or small objects of'], ['', '3926.90.93.00', '---Racket strings of a length not exceeding'], ['', '3926.90.94.00', '---Reflected light nails'], ['', '3926.90.95.00', '---Other articles of non-rigid cellular'], ['', '3926.90.96.00', '---Prayer beads'], ['', '3926.90.99.00', '---Other'], ['116', '6105.10', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6105.10.00.00', '-Of cotton'], ['117', '6105.20', '- Of man-made fibres:'], ['', '6105.20.10.00', '--Of synthetic fibres'], ['', '6105.20.20.00', '--Of artificial fibres'], ['118', '6105.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6105.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['119', '6106.10', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6106.10.00.00', '-Of cotton'], ['120', '6106.20', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6106.20.00.00', '-Of man-made fibres'], ['121', '6106.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6106.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['122', '6107.11', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6107.11.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['123', '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6107.12.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['124', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6107.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['125', '6107.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6107.21.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['126', '6107.22', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6107.22.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['127', '6107.29', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6107.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['128', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6107.91.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['129', '6107.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6107.92.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['130', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6107.99.90.00', '---Other'], ['131', '6108.11', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6108.11.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['132', '6108.19', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6108.19.30.00', '---Of cotton'], ['', '6108.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['133', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6108.21.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['134', '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6108.22.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['135', '6108.29', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6108.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['136', '6108.31', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6108.31.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['137', '6108.32', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6108.32.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['138', '6108.39', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6108.39.90.00', '---Other'], ['139', '6108.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6108.91.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['140', '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6108.92.00.00', '--Of man-made fibres'], ['141', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6108.99.90.00', '---Other'], ['142', '6109.10', '- Of cotton:'], ['', '6109.10.10.00', '--For men or boys'], ['', '6109.10.20.00', '--For women or girls'], ['143', '6109.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6109.90.10.00', '--For men or boys, of ramie, linen or silk'], ['', '6109.90.20.00', '--For men or boys, of other materials'], ['', '6109.90.30.00', '--For women or girls, of ramie, linen or silk'], ['', '6109.90.40.00', '--For women or girls, of other materials'], ['144', '6110.19', '- - Other'], ['', '6110.19.00.00', '--Other'], ['145', '6110.20', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6110.20.00.00', '-Of cotton'], ['146', '6110.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6110.30.00.00', '-Of man-made fibres'], ['147', '6110.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6110.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['148', '6112.11', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6112.11.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['149', '6112.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['', '6112.12.00.00', '--Of synthetic fibres'], ['150', '6112.19', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6112.19.10.00', '---Of ramie, linen or silk'], ['', '6112.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['151', '6112.31', '- - Of synthetic fibres:'], ['', '6112.31.10.00', '---Not elasticated or rubberised'], ['', '6112.31.20.00', '---Elasticated or rubberised'], ['152', '6112.39', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6112.39.10.00', '---Not elasticated or rubberised'], ['', '6112.39.20.00', '---Elasticated or rubberised'], ['153', '6112.41', '- - Of synthetic fibres:'], ['', '6112.41.10.00', '---Not elasticated or rubberised'], ['', '6112.41.20.00', '---Elasticated or rubberised'], ['154', '6112.49', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6112.49.10.00', '---Not elasticated or rubberised'], ['', '6112.49.20.00', '---Elasticated or rubberised'], ['155', '6205.20', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6205.20.00.00', '-Of cotton'], ['156', '6205.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6205.30.00.00', '-Of man-made fibres'], ['157', '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6205.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['158', '6206.30', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6206.30.00.00', '-Of cotton'], ['159', '6206.40', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6206.40.00.00', '-Of man-made fibres'], ['160', '6206.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6206.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['161', '6211.11', "- - Men's or boys'"], ['', '6211.11.00.10', '---Batik'], ['', '6211.11.00.90', '---Other'], ['162', '6211.12', "- - Women's or girls'"], ['', '6211.12.00.10', '---Batik'], ['', '6211.12.00.90', '---Other'], ['163', '6211.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6211.31.00.00', '--Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['164', '6211.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['', '6211.32.00.00', '--Of cotton'], ['165', '6211.33', '- - Of man-made fibres:'], ['', '6211.33.90.90', '----Other'], ['166', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6211.41.00.00', '--Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['167', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton:'], ['', '6211.42.10.00', '---Prayer cloaks'], ['', '6211.42.90.10', '----Batik'], ['', '6211.42.90.90', '----Other'], ['168', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres:'], ['', '6211.43.20.00', '---Prayer cloaks'], ['', '6211.43.30.00', '---Flyers coveralls'], ['', '6211.43.90.10', '----Batik'], ['', '6211.43.90.90', '----Other'], ['169', '6211.49', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6211.49.90.90', '----Other'], ['170', '6212.10', '- Brassiéres:'], ['', '6212.10.10.00', '--Of cotton'], ['', '6212.10.90.00', '--Of other textile materials'], ['171', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles:'], ['', '6212.20.10.00', '--Of cotton'], ['', '6212.20.90.00', '--Of other textile materials'], ['172', '6212.30', '- Corselettes:'], ['', '6212.30.10.00', '--Of cotton'], ['', '6212.30.90.00', '--Of other textile materials'], ['173', '6212.90', '- Other:'], ['', '6212.90.10.00', '--Of cotton'], ['', '6212.90.90.00', '--Of other textile materials'], ['174', '6503.00', 'Felt hats and other felt headgear, made from the hat bodies, hoods or'], ['', '6503.00.00.00', 'Felt hats and other felt headgear, made from'], ['175', '6504.00', 'Hats and other headgear, plaited or made by assembling strips'], ['', '6504.00.00.00', 'Hats and other headgear ,plaited or made by'], ['176', '6505.10', '- Hair-nets'], ['', '6505.10.00.00', '-Hair-nets'], ['177', '6702.10', '- Of plastics'], ['', '6702.10.00.00', '-Of plastics'], ['178', '6702.90', '- Of other materials'], ['', '6702.90.00.00', '-Of other materials'], ['179', '6704.11', '- - Complete wigs'], ['', '6704.11.00.00', '--Complete wigs'], ['180', '6704.19', '- - Other'], ['', '6704.19.00.00', '--Other'], ['181', '6704.20', '- Of human hair'], ['', '6704.20.00.00', '-Of human hair'], ['182', '6704.90', '- Of other materials'], ['', '6704.90.00.00', '-Of other materials'], ['183', '6815.99', '- - Other:'], ['', '6815.99.10.00', '---Touchstones'], ['184', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad with other precious metal:'], ['', '7113.11.10.00', '---Parts'], ['', '7113.11.90.00', '---Other'], ['185', '7113.19', '- - Of other precious metal, whether or not plated or clad with precious metal:'], ['', '7113.19.10.00', '---Parts'], ['', '7113.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['186', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal:'], ['', '7113.20.10.00', '--Parts'], ['', '7113.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['187', '7114.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad with other precious metal'], ['', '7114.11.00.00', '--Of silver, whether or not plated or clad'], ['188', '7114.19', '- - Of other precious metal, whether or not plated or clad with precious metal'], ['', '7114.19.00.00', '--Of other precious metal, whether or not'], ['189', '7114.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal'], ['', '7114.20.00.00', '-Of base metal clad with precious metal'], ['190', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['', '7116.10.00.00', '-Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['191', '7117.19', '- - Other:'], ['', '7117.19.10.00', '---Bangles'], ['', '7117.19.20.00', '---Parts'], ['', '7117.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['192', '7117.90', '- Other:'], ['', '7117.90.10.10', '---Of platics'], ['', '7117.90.10.20', '---Of plastering material'], ['', '7117.90.10.30', '---Of ceramic'], ['', '7117.90.10.40', '---Of glass'], ['', '7117.90.10.50', '---Of tortoise-shell, mother of pearl, ivory,'], ['193', '7207.20', '- - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon:'], ['', '7207.20.11.00', '---Slabs'], ['', '7207.20.91.00', '---Slabs'], ['194', '7208.10', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief:'], ['', '7208.10.10.90', '---Other'], ['', '7208.10.20.90', '---Other'], ['', '7208.10.30.90', '---Other'], ['', '7208.10.90.90', '---Other'], ['195', '7208.26', '- - - Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6%'], ['', '7208.26.10.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.26.10.90', '----Other'], ['', '7208.26.90.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.26.90.90', '----Other'], ['196', '7208.27', '- - - Of a thickness of less than 1.5 mm:'], ['', '7208.27.11.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.27.11.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7208.27.19.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.27.19.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7208.27.91.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.27.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7208.27.99.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.27.99.90', '-----Other'], ['197', '7208.37', '- - - Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7208.37.10.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.37.10.90', '----Other'], ['', '7208.37.90.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.37.90.90', '-----Other'], ['198', '7208.38', '- - - Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7208.38.10.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.38.10.90', '----Other'], ['', '7208.38.90.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa,'], ['', '7208.38.90.90', '----Other'], ['199', '7208.39', '- - - Of a thickness of less than 1.5 mm:'], ['', '7208.39.11.00', '----Steel plates and sheets containing by'], ['', '7208.39.19.00', '----Other :'], ['', '7208.39.90.10', '----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.39.90.90', '----Other'], ['200', '7208.90', '- - Of a thickness of 10 mm or more but not exceeding 125 mm; of'], ['', '7208.90.10.90', '---Other'], ['', '7208.90.20.90', '---Lain-lain'], ['', '7208.90.30.90', '---Lain-lain'], ['', '7208.90.90.90', '---Other'], ['201', '7209.26', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding 1 mm'], ['', '7209.26.00.90', '---Other'], ['202', '7209.28', '- Other'], ['', '7209.28.00.90', '---Other'], ['203', '7209.90', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm'], ['', '7209.90.00.00', '-Other'], ['204', '7211.13', '150 mm and a thickness of not less than 4 mm, not in coils and'], ['', '7211.13.11.00', '----Universal plates'], ['', '7211.13.12.00', '----Hoop and strip'], ['', '7211.13.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7211.13.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.13.92.90', '-----Other'], ['205', '7211.14', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon:'], ['', '7211.14.11.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.12.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.19.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.92.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.93.90', '-----Other'], ['206', '7211.19', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon:'], ['', '7211.19.11.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.12.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.19.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.92.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.93.90', '-----Other'], ['207', '7211.23', '- - - Corrugated'], ['', '7211.23.10.00', '---Corrugated'], ['', '7211.23.20.00', '---Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not'], ['', '7211.23.40.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm in'], ['208', '7211.29', '- - - Containing by weight 0.25 % or more but less than 0.6% of carbon:'], ['', '7211.29.11.00', '----Corrugated'], ['', '7211.29.21.00', '----Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not'], ['', '7211.29.22.00', '----Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding'], ['', '7211.29.23.00', '----Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm'], ['209', '7211.90', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of carbon:'], ['', '7211.90.99.00', '---Other'], ['210', '7212.50', '- - Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys:'], ['', '7212.50.51.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.52.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.59.00', '----Other'], ['', '7212.50.61.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.62.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.63.00', '----Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.50.69.00', '----Other'], ['211', '7213.20', '- - With an average diameter of 5 mm to 20 mm'], ['', '7213.20.10.00', '--With an average diameter of 5 mm to 20 mm'], ['', '7213.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['212', '7213.91', '- - - For making soldering bars'], ['', '7213.91.91.10', '-----Containg by weight 0.77% or more of'], ['', '7213.91.93.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '7213.91.99.00', '----Other'], ['213', '7213.99', '- - - For making soldering bars'], ['', '7213.99.91.10', '-----Containg by weight 0.77% or more of'], ['', '7213.99.93.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['214', '7214.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7214.10.10.00', '--Containing by weight less than 0.6 % of'], ['', '7214.10.20.00', '--Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of'], ['215', '7214.91', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon:'], ['', '7214.91.22.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['216', '7214.99', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon:'], ['', '7214.99.12.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '7214.99.32.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['217', '7215.10', '- Of free-cutting steel, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished'], ['', '7215.10.00.00', '-Of free-cutting steel, not further worked'], ['218', '7215.90', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon:'], ['', '7215.90.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7215.90.20.00', '--Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of carbon'], ['219', '7217.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon:'], ['', '7217.10.10.00', '--Containing by weight less than 0.25% of'], ['', '7217.10.22.00', '---Bead wire; flat hard steel reed wire; pre-'], ['220', '7217.20', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25% carbon'], ['', '7217.20.10.00', '--Containing by weight less than 0.25% of'], ['221', '7217.90', '- - Containing by weight of not less than 0.1% of silicon and'], ['', '7217.90.10.00', '--Containing by weight of not less than 0.1%'], ['', '7217.90.50.00', '--Other containing by weight 0.6% or more of'], ['222', '7219.31', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['', '7219.31.00.00', '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more'], ['223', '7219.32', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['', '7219.32.00.00', '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than'], ['224', '7219.90', '- - Of a thickness not exceeding 125 mm and with patterns in relief'], ['', '7219.90.10.00', '--Of a thickness not exceeding 125 mm and with'], ['', '7219.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['225', '7220.90', '- - Hoop and strip'], ['', '7220.90.10.00', '--Hoop and strip'], ['', '7220.90.20.00', '--Plates and sheets of a thickness of 4.75 mm'], ['', '7220.90.30.00', '--Other plates and sheets'], ['', '7220.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['226', '7222.40', '- - Angles, other than slotted angles:'], ['', '7222.40.11.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7222.40.12.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7222.40.20.00', '--Slotted angles, roll-formed from pure-'], ['', '7222.40.31.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more and of'], ['', '7222.40.32.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more and of'], ['', '7222.40.33.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm and of'], ['', '7222.40.34.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm and of'], ['227', '7228.70', '- - Angles, other than slotted angles:'], ['', '7228.70.11.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7228.70.12.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7228.70.20.00', '--Slotted angles, roll-formed from pure-'], ['', '7228.70.31.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more and of'], ['', '7228.70.32.00', '---Of a height of 80 mm or more and of'], ['', '7228.70.33.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm and of'], ['', '7228.70.34.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm and of'], ['228', '7304.29', '- Other, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel:'], ['', '7304.29.00.10', '---Unfinished casing and tubing (green pipe)'], ['229', '7306.40', '- - Welded boiler tubes with internal diameter not exceeding 12.5 mm'], ['', '7306.40.20.00', '--Welded boiler tubes with internal diameter'], ['', '7306.40.30.00', '--Stainless steel pipes and tubes, with'], ['', '7306.40.40.00', '--High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.40.90.00', '--Other, with internal diameter exceeding'], ['230', '7309.00', '(other than compressed or liquefied gas), of iron or steel, of a'], ['', '7309.00.00.00', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar'], ['231', '7310.29', '- - - Of a capacity of 1 l:'], ['', '7310.29.91.00', '----Of iron or steel casting in the rough'], ['232', '7315.11', '- - Roller chain:'], ['', '7315.11.11.00', '----Chain for bicycles'], ['', '7315.11.12.00', '----Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '7315.11.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7315.11.21.00', '----Chain for bicycles'], ['', '7315.11.22.00', '----Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '7315.11.23.00', '----Other transmission type of pitch length'], ['', '7315.11.24.00', '----Industrial or conveyor type of pitch'], ['', '7315.11.29.00', '----Other'], ['233', '7315.12', '- - Other chain:'], ['', '7315.12.10.00', '---Of mild steel'], ['', '7315.12.90.00', '---Other'], ['234', '7315.19', '- - Parts:'], ['', '7315.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['235', '7315.20', '- Skid chain'], ['', '7315.20.00.00', '-Skid chain'], ['236', '7315.89', '- - Other:'], ['', '7315.89.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7315.89.29.00', '----Other'], ['237', '7315.90', '- Other parts:'], ['', '7315.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['238', '7317.00', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails, staples (other than'], ['', '7317.00.10.00', '-Wire nails'], ['', '7317.00.20.00', '-Staples'], ['239', '7319.10', '- Sewing, darning or embroidery needles'], ['', '7319.10.00.00', '-Sewing, darning or embroidery needles'], ['240', '7320.10', '- Leaf-springs and leaves therefor:'], ['', '7320.10.10.00', '--For motor vehicles'], ['241', '7320.20', '- Helical springs:'], ['', '7320.20.10.00', '--For motor vehicles'], ['242', '7321.11', '- - For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels:'], ['', '7321.11.10.00', '---Kitchen stoves, ranges, oven, cookers'], ['', '7321.11.90.00', '---Other'], ['243', '7321.12', '- - For liquid fuel'], ['', '7321.12.00.00', '--For liquid fuel'], ['244', '7321.13', '- - For solid fuel'], ['', '7321.13.00.00', '--For solid fuel'], ['245', '7321.81', '- - For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels'], ['', '7321.81.00.00', '--For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels'], ['246', '7321.82', '- - For liquid fuel'], ['', '7321.82.00.00', '--For liquid fuel'], ['247', '7321.83', '- - For solid fuel'], ['', '7321.83.00.00', '--For solid fuel'], ['248', '7321.90', '- Parts'], ['', '7321.90.00.00', '-Parts'], ['249', '7324.21', '- - Of cast iron, whether or not enamelled'], ['', '7324.21.00.00', '--Of cast iron, whether or not enamelled'], ['250', '7324.29', '- - Other'], ['', '7324.29.00.00', '--Other'], ['251', '7324.90', '- Other, including parts:'], ['', '7324.90.10.00', '--For flushing water closets or urinals'], ['252', '7325.10', '- Of non-malleable cast iron:'], ['', '7325.10.20.00', '--Manhole covers, gratings and frames thereof'], ['', '7325.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['253', '7325.91', '- - Grinding balls and similar articles for mills'], ['', '7325.91.00.00', '--Grinding balls and similar articles for'], ['254', '7325.99', '- - Other:'], ['', '7325.99.10.00', '---Latex spouts and latex cups'], ['', '7325.99.20.00', '---Manhole covers, gratings and frames thereof'], ['', '7325.99.90.00', '---Other'], ['255', '7326.90', '- Other:'], ['', '7326.90.20.00', '--Pistol or revolver shaped keychains with'], ['', '7326.90.30.00', '--Stainless steel shield and clamp assembly'], ['', '7326.90.40.00', '--Latex spouts and latex cups'], ['', '7326.90.50.00', '--Rat traps'], ['', '7326.90.60.00', '--Steel balls for ball point pens'], ['', '7326.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['256', '8403.10', '- Boilers'], ['', '8403.10.00.00', '-Boilers'], ['257', '8403.90', '- Parts'], ['', '8403.90.00.00', '-Parts'], ['258', '8407.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc:'], ['', '8407.32.21.00', '----Exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 110 cc'], ['', '8407.32.22.00', '----Exceeding 110 cc but not exceeding 125 cc'], ['', '8407.32.29.00', '----Exceeding 125 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['259', '8407.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '8407.33.20.00', '---For the vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '8407.33.90.00', '---Other'], ['260', '8407.34', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '8407.34.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '8407.34.29.00', '----Other'], ['261', '8408.90', '- Other engines:'], ['', '8408.90.11.00', '---For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8408.90.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '8408.90.21.00', '---For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8408.90.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '8408.90.31.00', '---For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8408.90.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '8408.90.41.00', '---For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8408.90.49.00', '---Other'], ['', '8408.90.51.00', '---For earth moving machinery'], ['', '8408.90.59.00', '---Other'], ['262', '8413.70', '- Other centrifugal pumps:'], ['', '8413.70.21.00', '---Water pumps specially designed for'], ['', '8413.70.22.00', '---Impulse-turbo water pumps of a capacity not'], ['', '8413.70.23.00', '---Other, water pumps with capacity not'], ['', '8413.70.24.00', '---Other, water pumps with capacity'], ['', '8413.70.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '8413.70.30.00', '--Not electrically operated'], ['263', '8414.51', '- - Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans, with a self-contained'], ['', '8414.51.10.00', '---Table fans and box fans'], ['', '8414.51.20.00', '---Wall fans and ceiling fans'], ['', '8414.51.30.00', '---Floor fans'], ['', '8414.51.90.00', '---Other'], ['264', '8418.10', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors:'], ['', '8418.10.10.90', '---Other'], ['', '8418.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['265', '8418.21', '- - Compression-type'], ['', '8418.21.00.10', '---Of capacity not exceeding 230 l'], ['', '8418.21.00.90', '---Other'], ['266', '8418.22', '- - Absorption-type, electrical'], ['', '8418.22.00.10', '---Of capacity not exceeding 230 l'], ['', '8418.22.00.90', '---Other'], ['267', '8418.29', '- - Other'], ['', '8418.29.00.00', '--Other'], ['268', '8424.81', '- - Agricultural or horticultural:'], ['', '8424.81.10.00', '---Drip irrigation systems'], ['', '8424.81.21.00', '----Spraying machine for pesticides'], ['', '8424.81.29.00', '----Other'], ['', '8424.81.31.00', '----Hand operated insecticide sprayers'], ['', '8424.81.32.00', '----Other spraying machine for pesticides'], ['', '8424.81.39.00', '----Other'], ['269', '8433.51', '- - Combine harvester-threshers'], ['', '8433.51.00.00', '--Combined harvester-threshers'], ['270', '8437.80', '- Other machinery:'], ['', '8437.80.10.00', '--Rice hullers and cone type rice mills,'], ['271', '8450.11', '- - Fully-automatic machines:'], ['', '8450.11.10.00', '---Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding'], ['272', '8450.12', '- - Other machines, with built-in centrifugal drier:'], ['', '8450.12.10.00', '---Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding'], ['273', '8450.19', '- - Other:'], ['', '8450.19.10.00', '---Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding'], ['274', '8516.60', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters:'], ['', '8516.60.10.00', '--Rice cookers'], ['', '8516.60.20.00', '--Ovens'], ['', '8516.60.90.00', '--Other'], ['275', '8518.50', '- Electric sound amplifier sets:'], ['', '8518.50.10.00', '--Of an output of 240 W or more'], ['276', '8520.90', '- Other:'], ['', '8520.90.10.00', '--Television, broadcasting, cinematographic'], ['', '8520.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['277', '8525.40', '- Still image video cameras and other video camera recorders; digital cameras:'], ['', '8525.40.20.00', '--Other still image video cameras'], ['', '8525.40.30.00', '--Other digital camera'], ['', '8525.40.40.00', '--Other video camera recordes'], ['278', '8527.19', '- - Other:'], ['', '8527.19.10.00', '---For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '8527.19.20.00', '---Reception apparatus capable of planning,'], ['', '8527.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['279', '8527.21', '- - Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['', '8527.21.10.00', '---For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '8527.21.90.00', '---Other'], ['280', '8527.29', '- - Other:'], ['', '8527.29.10.00', '---For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '8527.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['281', '8527.31', '- - Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['', '8527.31.10.00', '---For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '8527.31.90.00', '---Other'], ['282', '8527.32', '- - Not combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus but combined\nwith a clock'], ['', '8527.32.00.00', '--Not combined with sound recording or'], ['283', '8528.12', '- - Colour:'], ['', '8528.12.10.00', '---Set top boxes which have a communication'], ['', '8528.12.20.00', '---Printed circuit assemblies for use with ADP'], ['', '8528.12.90.00', '---Other'], ['284', '8528.21', '- - Colour:'], ['', '8528.21.90.00', '---Other'], ['285', '8702.10', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel'], ['', '8702.10.06.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.07.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.08.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.09.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.15.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.16.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.17.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.26.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.27.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.28.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.31.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.37.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.38.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.39.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.46.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.47.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.48.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.49.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['', '8702.10.67.00', '-----Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding'], ['286', '8703.21', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '8703.21.32.10', '-----Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.21.32.91', '------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.21.32.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.21.42.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.21.44.00', '----Other'], ['', '8703.21.52.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.21.54.10', '-----Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.21.54.90', '-----Other'], ['', '8703.21.56.00', '----Other'], ['287', '8703.22', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['', '8703.22.52.10', '-----Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.22.52.91', '------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.22.52.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.22.62.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.22.64.00', '----Other'], ['', '8703.22.72.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.22.74.10', '-----Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.22.74.90', '-----Other'], ['', '8703.22.76.00', '----Other'], ['288', '8703.23', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding'], ['', '8703.23.21.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.21.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.23.21.92', '-------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.23.22.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.22.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.23.22.92', '-------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.23.23.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.23.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.23.23.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.23.24.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.24.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.23.24.92', '-------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.23.51.10', '-------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.51.90', '-------Other'], ['', '8703.23.52.10', '-------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.52.90', '-------Other'], ['', '8703.23.53.10', '-------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.53.90', '-------Other'], ['', '8703.23.54.10', '-------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.23.54.90', '-------Other'], ['', '8703.23.61.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.62.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.63.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.64.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.71.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.72.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.73.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.74.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['289', '8703.31', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['', '8703.31.52.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.31.52.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.31.52.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.31.53.00', '-----Used'], ['', '8703.31.62.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.31.64.00', '----Other'], ['', '8703.31.72.00', '----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.31.74.10', '-----Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.31.74.90', '-----Other'], ['', '8703.31.75.00', '----Used motor cars (including station wagons,'], ['', '8703.31.77.00', '----Other'], ['290', '8703.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding'], ['', '8703.32.23.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.32.23.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.32.23.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.32.24.00', '-----Used, of a cylinder capacity less than'], ['', '8703.32.25.00', '-----Used, of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.26.00', '-----Used, of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.34.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.32.35.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.36.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.44.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 c'], ['', '8703.32.45.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.46.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.53.10', '-------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.32.53.90', '-------Other'], ['', '8703.32.54.00', '------Used, of a cylinder capacity less than'], ['', '8703.32.55.00', '------Used, of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.32.56.00', '------Used, of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.32.64.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity less than'], ['', '8703.32.65.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.66.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.74.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity less than'], ['', '8703.32.75.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.32.76.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['291', '8703.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc:'], ['', '8703.33.22.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.33.22.91', '-------Two wheel drive (4x2) system'], ['', '8703.33.22.92', '------Four wheel drive (4x4) system'], ['', '8703.33.23.00', '-----CBU/ other, used'], ['', '8703.33.25.00', '-----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.33.27.00', '-----Other'], ['', '8703.33.29.00', '-----Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/ other'], ['', '8703.33.31.10', '------Sedan / station wagons'], ['', '8703.33.31.90', '------Other'], ['', '8703.33.32.00', '-----Used motor cars ( including station'], ['', '8703.33.34.00', '-----Other'], ['292', '8703.90', '- Other:'], ['', '8703.90.26.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.27.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.28.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.31.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.37.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.38.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.41.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.42.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.43.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.48.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.51.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.52.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.53.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.61.00', '----Electric-powered'], ['', '8703.90.66.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity less than'], ['', '8703.90.67.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.68.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.71.00', '------Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.77.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.78.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.81.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.82.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.88.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.91.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.92.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and'], ['', '8703.90.93.00', '----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and'], ['293', '8704.21', '- - g.v.w. vehicle weight not exceeding 5 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.21.21.00', '----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.21.22.00', '----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.21.23.00', '----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.21.24.00', '----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.21.25.00', '----Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.21.26.00', '----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.21.29.00', '----Other'], ['294', '8704.22', '- - g.v.w exceeding 5 tonnes but not exceeding 20 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.22.41.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.22.42.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.22.43.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.44.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.22.45.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.22.46.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.49.00', '-----Other'], ['', '8704.22.51.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.22.52.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.22.53.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.54.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.22.55.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.22.56.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.59.00', '-----Other'], ['', '8704.22.61.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.22.62.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.22.63.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.64.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.22.65.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.22.66.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.69.00', '-----Other'], ['295', '8704.23', '- - g.v.w exceeding 20 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.23.31.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.23.32.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.23.33.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.34.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.23.35.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.23.36.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.23.39.00', '-----Other'], ['296', '8704.31', '- - g.v.w not exceeding 5 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.31.21.00', '----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.31.22.00', '----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.31.23.00', '----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.31.24.00', '----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.31.25.00', '----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['297', '8704.31', '- - g.v.w not exceeding 5 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.31.26.00', '----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['298', '8704.31', '- - g.v.w not exceeding 5 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.31.29.00', '----Other'], ['299', '8704.32', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 tonnes:'], ['', '8704.32.54.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.32.55.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.32.56.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.57.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.32.58.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.32.61.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.62.00', '-----Other'], ['', '8704.32.63.00', '-----Refrigerated vans'], ['', '8704.32.64.00', '-----Refuse collection vehicles having refuse'], ['', '8704.32.65.00', '-----Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.66.00', '-----Designed for the transport of concrete or'], ['', '8704.32.67.00', '-----Other vans, pick up trucks and similar'], ['', '8704.32.68.00', '-----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.69.00', '-----Other'], ['300', '8704.90', '- Other:'], ['', '8704.90.41.00', '----Vans, pick up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.90.42.00', '----Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.90.49.00', '----Other'], ['301', '8706.00', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.'], ['', '8706.00.21.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8702.10'], ['', '8706.00.22.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8702.90'], ['', '8706.00.31.00', '--For ambulances'], ['', '8706.00.39.00', '--Other'], ['', '8706.00.41.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '8706.00.49.00', '--Other'], ['302', '8707.10', '- For the vehicles of heading 87.03:'], ['', '8707.10.10.00', '--For ambulances'], ['', '8707.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['303', '8707.90', '- Other:'], ['', '8707.90.21.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '8707.90.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '8707.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['304', '8708.10', '- Bumpers and parts thereof:'], ['', '8708.10.20.00', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.10.30.00', '--For ambulances'], ['', '8708.10.40.00', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.10.50.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.10.60.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['305', '8708.29', '- - Other:'], ['', '8708.29.13.00', '----For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.29.14.00', '----For ambulances'], ['', '8708.29.15.00', '----For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.29.16.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.29.17.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.29.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '8708.29.93.00', '----For vehicles of pos 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.29.94.00', '----For ambulances'], ['', '8708.29.95.00', '----For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.29.96.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.29.97.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.29.98.00', '----Parts of safety belt'], ['', '8708.29.99.00', '----Other'], ['306', '8708.39', '- - Other:'], ['', '8708.39.30.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.39.40.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.39.50.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.39.60.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.39.70.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.39.90.00', '---Other'], ['307', '8708.40', '- Gear boxes:'], ['', '8708.40.13.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.40.14.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.40.15.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.40.16.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.40.17.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.40.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '8708.40.21.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8701.10 or'], ['', '8708.40.22.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 87.01 (except'], ['', '8708.40.23.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.40.24.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.40.25.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.40.26.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.40.27.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.40.29.00', '---Other'], ['308', '8708.60', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof:'], ['', '8708.60.13.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.60.14.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.60.15.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.60.16.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.60.17.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.60.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '8708.60.23.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.60.24.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.60.25.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.60.26.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.60.27.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.60.29.00', '---Other'], ['309', '8708.70', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof:'], ['', '8708.70.13.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.70.14.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.70.15.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.70.16.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.70.17.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.70.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '8708.70.93.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.70.94.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.70.95.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.70.96.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.70.97.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.70.99.00', '---Other'], ['310', '8708.80', '- Suspension shock-absorbers:'], ['', '8708.80.30.00', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.80.40.00', '--For ambulances'], ['', '8708.80.50.00', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.80.60.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.80.70.00', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.80.90.00', '--Other'], ['311', '8708.91', '- - Radiators:'], ['', '8708.91.30.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.91.40.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.91.50.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.91.60.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.91.70.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.91.90.00', '---Other'], ['312', '8708.92', '- - Silencers and exhaust pipes:'], ['', '8708.92.13.00', '----For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.92.14.00', '----For ambulances'], ['', '8708.92.15.00', '----For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.92.16.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.92.17.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.92.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '8708.92.93.00', '----For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.92.94.00', '----For ambulances'], ['', '8708.92.95.00', '----For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.92.96.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.92.97.00', '----For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.92.99.00', '----Other'], ['', '8708.93.30.00', '---For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04'], ['', '8708.93.40.00', '---For ambulances'], ['', '8708.93.50.00', '---For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to'], ['', '8708.93.60.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or'], ['', '8708.93.70.00', '---For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or'], ['', '8708.93.90.00', '---Other'], ['313', '8711.50', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder'], ['', '8711.50.30.00', '--Other, CBU/ other'], ['314', '8714.11', '- - Saddles:'], ['', '8714.11.10.00', '---For motorcycles of subheadings 8711.10,'], ['', '8714.11.20.00', '---For motorcycles of subheadings 8711.30,'], ['315', '8905.20', '- Floating or submersible drilling or production platforms'], ['', '8905.20.00.00', '-Floating or submersible drilling or'], ['316', '9502.10', '- Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['', '9502.10.00.00', '-Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['317', '9506.62', '- - Inflatable'], ['', '9506.62.00.00', '--Inflatable'], ['318', '9506.69', '- - Other'], ['', '9506.69.00.00', '--Other'], ['319', '9601.10', '- Worked ivory and articles of ivory:'], ['', '9601.10.10.00', '--Worked rhinoceros horn'], ['', '9601.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['320', '9601.90', '- Other:'], ['', '9601.90.20.00', '--Other'], ['321', '9701.90', '- Other:'], ['', '9701.90.10.00', '--Of cut flowers, flower buds, foliage,']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Korea:  
[['No.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0106.20', '- Reptiles (including snakes and turtles)'], ['', '0106202000', 'Fresh-water tortoises'], ['2', '0206.10', '- Of bovine animals, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0206100000', 'Of bovine animals,fresh or chilled'], ['3', '0206.21', '- Tongues'], ['', '0206210000', 'Tongues'], ['4', '0206.22', '- Livers'], ['', '0206220000', 'Livers'], ['5', '0207.14', '- Cuts and offal, frozen'], ['', '0207142010', 'Liver'], ['', '0207142090', 'Other'], ['6', '0210.20', '- Meat of bovine animals'], ['', '0210201000', 'Dried or smoked'], ['7', '0210.99', '- Other:'], ['', '0210991020', 'Of swine'], ['8', '0301.10', '- Ornamental fish'], ['', '0301109000', 'Other'], ['9', '0301.92', '- Eels (Anguilla spp.)'], ['', '0301921000', 'Glass eel'], ['10', '0301.99', '- Other:'], ['', '0301992000', 'Yellow tail'], ['', '0301995000', 'Conger eel'], ['', '0301996000', 'Sharp toothed eel'], ['', '0301997000', 'Salad eel'], ['11', '0302.22', '- Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)'], ['', '0302220000', 'Plaice(Pleuronectes platessa)'], ['12', '0302.29', '- Other'], ['', '0302290000', 'Other'], ['13', '0302.31', '- Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga)'], ['', '0302310000', 'Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga)'], ['14', '0302.32', '- Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['', '0302320000', 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['15', '0302.39', '- Other'], ['', '0302390000', 'Other'], ['16', '0302.50', '- Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus),'], ['', '0302500000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus), excluding livers and\nroes'], ['17', '0302.69', '- Other:'], ['', '0302692000', 'Yellow tail'], ['18', '0303.31', '- Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides, Hippoglossus'], ['', '0303310000', 'Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglos-soides, Hippoglossus hippoglossus, Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)'], ['19', '0303.32', '- Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)'], ['', '0303320000', 'Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)'], ['20', '0303.39', '- Other'], ['', '0303390000', 'Other'], ['21', '0303.42', '- Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['', '0303420000', 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)'], ['22', '0303.43', '- Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['', '0303430000', 'Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito'], ['23', '0303.44', '- Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['', '0303440000', 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['24', '0303.49', '- Other'], ['', '0303490000', 'Other'], ['25', '0303.50', '- Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii), excluding livers and roes'], ['', '0303500000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus,Clupea pallasii),excluding livers and roes'], ['26', '0303.60', '- Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus),'], ['', '0303600000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua,Gadus ogac,Gadus macrocephalus),excluding livers and roes'], ['27', '0303.71', '- Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella'], ['', '0303710000', 'Sardines (Sardina pilchardus,Sardinops spp.),sardinella (Sardinella spp.),brisling\nor sprats (Sprattus sprattus)'], ['28', '0303.75', '- Dogfish and other sharks'], ['', '0303750000', 'Dogfish and other sharks'], ['29', '0303.79', '- Other'], ['', '0303794010', 'Red horsehead fish (Branchiostegus Japonicus)'], ['', '0303799020', 'Puffers'], ['', '0303799070', 'Rock fish (including pacific ocean perch)'], ['', '0303799092', 'Hagfish (Pacific, Atlantic)'], ['', '0303799096', 'Ray'], ['30', '0305.20', '- Livers and roes of fish, dried, smoked, salted or in brine'], ['', '0305202000', 'Roes,dried'], ['31', '0305.63', '- Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)'], ['', '0305631000', 'Salt fermented anchovy'], ['32', '0305.69', '- Other'], ['', '0305696000', 'Yellow corvine'], ['', '0305699000', 'Other'], ['33', '0306.24', 'Crabs'], ['', '0306241090', 'Other'], ['34', '0307.21', '- Live, fresh or chilled:'], ['', '0307210000', 'Live,fresh or chilled'], ['35', '0307.41', '- Live, fresh or chilled:'], ['', '0307411000', 'Cuttle fish'], ['36', '0307.91', '- Live,fresh or chilled'], ['', '0307911500', 'Ark shells'], ['', '0307911800', 'Baby clams'], ['37', '0307.99', '- Other:'], ['', '0307991130', 'Baby clams'], ['', '0307991150', 'Ark shells'], ['', '0307991190', 'Other'], ['', '0307991990', 'Other'], ['', '0307993120', 'Baby clams'], ['', '0307993190', 'Other'], ['38', '0403.90', '- Other'], ['', '0403902000', 'Curdled milk and cream'], ['', '0403909000', 'Other fermented or acidified milk and cream'], ['39', '0404.10', '- Whey and modified whey, whether or not concentrated or containing'], ['', '0404101010', 'Whey powder'], ['', '0404101090', 'Other'], ['', '0404102110', '(a) Lactose removed'], ['', '0404102120', '(b) Demineralized'], ['', '0404102130', '(c) Whey protein concentrates'], ['', '0404102190', '(d) Other'], ['', '0404102900', '(2)Other'], ['40', '0406.10', '- Fresh(unripened or uncured)cheese,including whey cheese,and curd'], ['', '0406102000', 'Curd'], ['41', '0406.40', '- Blue-veined cheese'], ['', '0406400000', 'Blue-veined cheese'], ['42', '0407.00', "Birds'eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['', '0407001090', 'Other'], ['', '0407009000', 'Other'], ['43', '0408.91', '- Dried'], ['', '0408910000', 'Dried'], ['44', '0408.99', '- Other'], ['', '0408999000', 'Other'], ['45', '0506.90', '- Other'], ['', '0506902000', 'B. Powder of bones.'], ['46', '0602.10', '- Unrooted cuttings and slips:'], ['', '0602109000', 'Other'], ['47', '0602.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0602901090', 'Other'], ['', '0602909090', 'Other'], ['48', '0603.10', '- Fresh'], ['', '0603105000', 'Lilies'], ['', '0603108000', 'Gypsophila'], ['', '0603109000', 'Other'], ['49', '0603.90', '- Other'], ['', '0603900000', 'Other'], ['50', '0702.00', '- Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.'], ['', '0702000000', 'Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.'], ['51', '0704.10', '- Cauliflowers and headed broccoli:'], ['', '0704100000', 'Cauliflowers and headed broccoli'], ['52', '0704.20', '- Brussels sprouts'], ['', '0704200000', 'Brussels sprouts'], ['53', '0709.20', '- Asparagus'], ['', '0709200000', '2. Asparagus'], ['54', '0709.51', '- Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus'], ['', '0709517000', 'Cultivated mushrooms (Agaricus bisporus)'], ['55', '0709.59', '- Other'], ['', '0709592000', 'Oak mushrooms'], ['56', '0709.90', '- Other'], ['', '0709903000', 'Pumpkins'], ['57', '0710.80', '- Other vegetables'], ['', '0710801000', 'Onions'], ['58', '0712.39', '- Other:'], ['', '0712391020', '(b) Oak mushrooms'], ['59', '0712.90', '3. Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables'], ['', '0712902030', '(3) Welsh onions'], ['', '0712902040', '(4) Carrots'], ['', '0712902050', '(5) Pumpkins'], ['', '0712902070', '(7) Taro stems'], ['60', '0713.40', '- Lentils:'], ['', '0713400000', 'Lentils'], ['61', '0714.20', '2. Sweet potatoes'], ['', '0714204000', 'D. Frozen'], ['62', '0714.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0714901010', '(1) Frozen'], ['', '0714901090', '(2) Other'], ['', '0714909010', '(1) Frozen'], ['63', '0801.31', '- In shell'], ['', '0801310000', 'In shell'], ['64', '0801.32', '- Shelled'], ['', '0801320000', 'Shelled'], ['65', '0805.50', '- Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus limonum) and limes (Citrus aurantifolia,'], ['', '0805501000', 'Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus limonum)'], ['66', '0806.20', '- Dried'], ['', '0806200000', '2. Dried'], ['67', '0807.19', '- Other'], ['', '0807190000', 'Other'], ['68', '0809.20', '- Cherries'], ['', '0809200000', '2. Cherries'], ['69', '0809.40', '- Plums and sloes'], ['', '0809402000', 'B. Sloes'], ['70', '0810.10', '- Strawberries'], ['', '0810100000', 'Strawberries'], ['71', '0810.50', '- Kiwifruit'], ['', '0810500000', 'Kiwifruit'], ['72', '0810.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0810901000', 'Persimmons'], ['', '0810905000', 'Mumes'], ['73', '0811.10', '- Strawberries'], ['', '0811100000', 'Strawberries'], ['74', '0812.10', '- Cherries'], ['', '0812100000', 'Cherries'], ['75', '0812.90', '- Other'], ['', '0812901000', 'Strawberries'], ['76', '0813.50', '- Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this Chapter'], ['', '0813500000', '5. Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this Chapter'], ['77', '0814.00', 'Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including watermelons), fresh, frozen,'], ['', '0814001000', 'Peel of citrus fruit'], ['78', '1103.11', '- Of wheat:'], ['', '1103110000', 'Of wheat'], ['79', '1103.20', '- Pellets'], ['', '1103201000', 'Of wheat'], ['', '1103203000', 'Of barley'], ['', '1103209000', 'Other'], ['80', '1104.30', '- Germ of cereals, whole, rolled, flaked or ground'], ['', '1104301000', 'Of rice'], ['81', '1106.20', '- Of sago, roots or tubers of heading 07.14:'], ['', '1106201000', 'Of arrow roots'], ['', '1106209000', 'Other'], ['82', '1106.30', '- Of the products of Chapter 8'], ['', '1106300000', 'Of the products of Chapter 8'], ['83', '1207.99', '- Other:'], ['', '1207991000', '(1) Perilla seeds'], ['84', '1211.20', '2. Ginseng roots'], ['', '1211202120', 'Tablet or capsule'], ['85', '1214.90', '- Other'], ['', '1214901000', 'Fodder roots'], ['', '1214909090', 'Other'], ['86', '1301.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1301909000', 'B. Other'], ['87', '1302.19', '- Other:'], ['', '1302191110', 'White ginseng extract'], ['88', '1401.10', '- Bamboos'], ['', '1401101000', 'Bamboos,phyllostachys'], ['', '1401102000', 'Raw bamboos'], ['', '1401109000', 'Other'], ['89', '1507.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1507901000', 'Refined oil'], ['', '1507909000', 'Other'], ['90', '1514.19', '- Other:'], ['', '1514191000', 'Refined oil'], ['', '1514199000', 'Other'], ['91', '1514.99', '- Other:'], ['', '1514991010', 'Other Rape oil or colza oil'], ['', '1514991020', 'Mustard oil'], ['', '1514999000', 'Other'], ['92', '1515.90', '6. Other'], ['', '1515909010', 'Rice bran oil and its fractions'], ['93', '1516.20', '- Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions:'], ['', '1516201010', 'Peanut oil and its fraction'], ['', '1516201050', 'Sesame oil and its fraction'], ['', '1516202090', 'Other'], ['94', '1604.19', '- Other:'], ['', '1604199090', 'Other'], ['95', '1604.20', '- Other prepared or preserved fish:'], ['', '1604204010', 'Of crab flavor'], ['', '1604204090', 'Other'], ['', '1604209000', 'Other'], ['96', '1605.90', 'Other'], ['', '1605909090', 'Other'], ['97', '1702.30', '- Glucose and glucose syrup, not containing fructose or containing'], ['', '1702301000', 'Glucose'], ['98', '1702.40', '- Glucose and glucose syrup, containing in the dry state at least 20%'], ['', '1702401000', 'Glucose'], ['99', '1702.60', '- Other fructose and fructose syrup, containing in the dry state more'], ['', '1702601000', 'Fructose'], ['100', '1702.90', '- Other, including invert sugar and other sugar and sugar syrup blends containing\nin the dry state 50% by weight of fructose'], ['', '1702902000', 'B. Caramel'], ['', '1702903000', 'C. Maltose'], ['', '1702909000', 'D. Other'], ['101', '1806.90', '4. Other'], ['', '1806902910', '(a) Of malt extract'], ['', '1806903099', 'Other'], ['102', '1902.19', '- Other:'], ['', '1902191000', 'Noodles'], ['', '1902192000', 'Chinese vermicelli'], ['103', '1904.10', '- Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products'], ['', '1904109000', 'Other'], ['104', '1904.20', '- Prepared foods obtained from unroasted cereal flakes or from'], ['', '1904201000', 'A. Of Musli type preparations'], ['', '1904209000', 'B. Other'], ['105', '1904.90', '4. Other'], ['', '1904909000', 'Other'], ['106', '1905.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1905901050', "Bakers' wares of rice"], ['', '1905909020', 'Rice paper'], ['107', '2001.90', '2. Other'], ['', '2001909040', 'Sweet corn'], ['108', '2004.10', '- Potatoes'], ['', '2004100000', 'Potatoes'], ['109', '2005.80', '- Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata)'], ['', '2005800000', 'Sweet corn(zea mays var. saccharata)'], ['110', '2007.91', '- Citrus fruit'], ['', '2007911000', 'Jams,fruit jellies and marmalades'], ['111', '2008.50', '- Apricots:'], ['', '2008500000', 'Apricots'], ['112', '2008.60', '- Cherries:'], ['', '2008600000', 'Cherries'], ['113', '2008.80', '- Strawberries:'], ['', '2008800000', 'Strawberries'], ['114', '2008.92', 'Mixtures'], ['', '2008922000', 'Fruit salad'], ['115', '2009.12', '- Not frozen, of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '2009120000', 'Not frozen, of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['116', '2009.31', '- Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '2009311000', 'Lemon juice'], ['', '2009312000', 'Lime juice'], ['', '2009319000', 'Other'], ['117', '2009.39', '- Other'], ['', '2009392000', 'Lime juice'], ['', '2009399000', 'Other'], ['118', '2009.49', '- Other'], ['', '2009490000', 'Other'], ['119', '2009.69', '- Other'], ['', '2009690000', 'Other'], ['120', '2009.71', '- Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '2009710000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['121', '2101.20', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté, and'], ['', '2101201000', 'Containing sugar,lemon or substitutes'], ['122', '2103.10', '- Soya sauce'], ['', '2103100000', 'Soya sauce'], ['123', '2103.90', '- Other:'], ['', '2103901010', 'Bean paste'], ['', '2103901020', 'Chinese bean paste'], ['', '2103901030', 'Hot bean paste'], ['', '2103909040', 'Mae jooⓚ'], ['124', '2106.10', '- Protein concentrates and textured protein substances'], ['', '2106101000', 'Bean-curd'], ['125', '2106.90', '2. Other'], ['', '2106904010', 'Laver'], ['', '2106909020', '(2) Preparations with a basis of butter'], ['', '2106909050', '(5) Flavors in preparations'], ['126', '2202.90', '- Other:'], ['', '2202901000', 'Beverage based on ginseng'], ['', '2202902000', 'Beverage of fruit juice'], ['127', '2206.00', 'Other fermented beverages (for example, cider, perry, mead); mixtures'], ['', '2206002090', 'Other'], ['128', '2207.10', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80% vol or\nhigher'], ['', '2207101000', 'A. Roughly distilled alcohol for beverages'], ['129', '2208.20', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape marc:'], ['', '2208201000', 'Cognac'], ['', '2208209000', 'Other'], ['130', '2208.30', '- Whiskies:'], ['', '2208301000', 'Scotch whisky'], ['', '2208309000', 'Other'], ['131', '2208.40', '- Rum and tafia:'], ['', '2208400000', 'Rum and tafia'], ['132', '2208.50', '- Gin and Geneva:'], ['', '2208500000', 'Gin and Geneva'], ['133', '2208.60', '- Vodka:'], ['', '2208600000', 'Vodka'], ['134', '2208.70', '- Liquers and cordials:'], ['', '2208709000', 'Other'], ['135', '2208.90', '- Other:'], ['', '2208901000', 'Brandies other than that of heading 2208.20'], ['', '2208909000', 'Other'], ['136', '2301.20', '- Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other'], ['', '2301209000', 'Other'], ['137', '2308.00', '- Vegetable materials and vegetable waste, vegetable residues and'], ['', '2308009000', 'Other'], ['138', '2523.10', '- Cement clinkers:'], ['', '2523100000', '1. Cement clinkers'], ['139', '2523.21', '- White cement, whether or not artificially coloured'], ['', '2523210000', 'A. White cement,whether or not artificially coloured'], ['140', '2523.29', '- Other:'], ['', '2523290000', 'B. Other'], ['141', '2523.90', '- Other hydraulic cements'], ['', '2523901000', 'Slag cements'], ['142', '2710.11', '- Light oils and preparations:'], ['', '2710111000', '(1) Motor spirit'], ['', '2710119000', '(6) Other'], ['143', '2710.19', '- Other:'], ['', '2710191090', '(b) Other'], ['', '2710192010', '(a) Kerosene'], ['', '2710192020', '(b) Jet fuel'], ['', '2710192090', '(d) Other'], ['', '2710193000', '(3) Gas oils'], ['', '2710194010', '(a) Light fuel oil(bunker A)'], ['', '2710194020', '(b) Fuel oil(bunker B)'], ['', '2710194030', '(c) Bunker C'], ['', '2710194090', '(d) Other'], ['', '2710195010', 'Raw oils'], ['', '2710195020', 'Lubricating base oil'], ['144', '2815.11', '- Solid'], ['', '2815110000', 'Solid'], ['145', '2815.12', '- In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['', '2815120000', 'In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['146', '2903.15', '- 1,2-Dichloroethane (ethylene dichloride)'], ['', '2903150000', 'E. 1,2-Dichloroethane(ethylene dichloride)'], ['147', '2903.21', '- Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene):'], ['', '2903210000', 'A. Vinyl chloride(chloroethylene)'], ['148', '2905.12', '- Propan-1-ol (propyl alcohol) and propan-2-ol (isopropyl alcohol)'], ['', '2905122010', 'For making semiconductor'], ['', '2905122090', 'Other'], ['149', '2905.13', '- Butan-1-ol (n-butyl alcohol)'], ['', '2905130000', 'C. Butan-1-ol(n-butyl alcohol)'], ['150', '2905.14', '- Other butanols'], ['', '2905140000', 'D. Other butanols'], ['151', '2905.16', '- Octanol (octyl alcohol) and isomers thereof'], ['', '2905161000', '2-ethylhexyl alcohol'], ['152', '2905.32', '- Propylene glycol (propane-1,2-diol)'], ['', '2905320000', 'B. Propylene glycol (propane-1,2-diol)'], ['153', '2905.39', '- Other'], ['', '2905392000', 'Neopentyl glycol'], ['154', '2905.44', '- D-glucitol (sorbitol)'], ['', '2905440000', 'D-glucitol (sorbitol)'], ['155', '2907.11', '- Phenol (hydroxybenzene) and its salts'], ['', '2907111000', 'Phenol'], ['156', '2907.23', "- 4,4'-Isopropylidenediphenol (bisphenol A, diphenylolpropane) and its salts"], ['', '2907231000', "4,4'-Isopropylidenediphenol(bisphenol a)"], ['157', '2910.20', '- Methyloxirane (propylene oxide)'], ['', '2910200000', '2. Methyloxirane (propylene oxide)'], ['158', '2910.30', '- 1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane (epichlorohydrin)'], ['', '2910300000', '3. 1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane (epichlorohydrin)'], ['159', '2914.11', '- Acetone'], ['', '2914110000', 'Acetone'], ['160', '2915.21', '- Acetic acid'], ['', '2915210000', 'Acetic acid'], ['161', '2915.31', '- Ethyl acetate'], ['', '2915310000', 'A. Ethyl acetate'], ['162', '2915.32', '- Vinyl acetate'], ['', '2915320000', 'B. Vinyl acetate'], ['163', '2915.33', '- n-Butyl acetate'], ['', '2915339000', '(2) Other'], ['164', '2916.11', '- Acrylic acid and its salts'], ['', '2916111000', 'Acrylic acid'], ['165', '2916.12', '- Esters of acrylic acid'], ['', '2916121000', 'Ethyl acrylate'], ['', '2916122000', 'Methyl acrylate'], ['', '2916123000', 'Butyl acrylate'], ['', '2916124000', '2-ethyl hexyl acrylate'], ['166', '2916.13', '- Methacrylic acid and its salts'], ['', '2916131000', 'Methacrylic acid'], ['167', '2916.14', '- Esters of methacrylic acid:'], ['', '2916141000', 'Methyl methacrylate'], ['168', '2905.43', '- Mannitol'], ['', '2905430000', 'Mannitol'], ['169', '2917.32', '- Dioctyl orthophthalates'], ['', '2917321000', 'Di-2-ethyl hexyl orthophthalate'], ['', '2917329000', 'Other'], ['170', '2917.34', '- Other esters of orthophthalic acid'], ['', '2917342000', 'Diisodecyl orthophthalate'], ['171', '2917.35', '- Phthalic anhydride'], ['', '2917350000', 'E. Phthalic anhydride'], ['172', '2917.39', '- Other:'], ['', '2917391000', 'Isophthalic acid'], ['173', '2934.99', '- Other:'], ['', '2934999000', '(4) Other'], ['174', '3102.10', '- Urea, whether or not in aqueous solution'], ['', '3102100000', 'Urea,whether or not in aqueous solution'], ['175', '3305.10', '- Shampoos:'], ['', '3305100000', 'Shampoos'], ['176', '3305.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3305901000', 'Hair rinses'], ['177', '3401.11', '- For toilet use, (including medicated products):'], ['', '3401119000', '(2) Other'], ['178', '3401.19', '- Other:'], ['', '3401191090', 'Other'], ['179', '3401.20', '- Soap in other forms:'], ['', '3401200000', '2. Soap in other forms'], ['180', '3702.42', '- Of a width exceeding 610 mm and of a length exceeding'], ['', '3702423000', 'For printed circuit board'], ['181', '3706.10', '- Of a width of 35 mm or more:'], ['', '3706105020', '(2) Positives'], ['182', '3707.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3707902100', 'For colour photography'], ['', '3707902920', 'For graphic art'], ['', '3707903100', 'For colour photography'], ['183', '3809.93', '- Of a kind used in the leather or like industries'], ['', '3809930000', 'Of a kind used in the leather or like industries'], ['184', '3811.21', '- Containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals:'], ['', '3811210000', 'Containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals'], ['185', '3812.20', '- Compound plasticisers for rubber or plastics'], ['', '3812200000', 'Compound plasticisers for rubber or plastics'], ['186', '3817.00', '- Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed alkylnaphthalenes, other than those'], ['', '3817000000', 'Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed alkylnaphthalenes,other than those of heading\n27.07 or 29.02.'], ['187', '3823.11', '- Stearic acid'], ['', '3823110000', 'Stearic acid'], ['188', '3823.19', '- Other:'], ['', '3823192000', 'Acid oils from refining'], ['189', '3823.70', '- Industrial fatty alcohols'], ['', '3823704000', 'Lauryl alcohol'], ['190', '3901.10', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94:'], ['', '3901100000', 'Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94'], ['191', '3901.20', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or more:'], ['', '3901201000', 'Of pulp'], ['', '3901209000', 'Other'], ['192', '3901.30', '- Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers:'], ['', '3901300000', 'Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers'], ['193', '3901.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3901900000', 'Other'], ['194', '3902.10', '- Polypropylene:'], ['', '3902100000', 'Polypropylene'], ['195', '3902.30', '- Propylene copolymers:'], ['', '3902300000', 'Propylene copolymers'], ['196', '3903.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3903909000', 'Other'], ['197', '3904.10', '- Poly(vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other substances:'], ['', '3904100000', 'Poly(vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other substances'], ['198', '3904.30', '- Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate copolymers:'], ['', '3904300000', 'Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate copolymers'], ['199', '3905.30', '- Poly(vinyl alcohol), whether or not containing unhydrolysed acetate groups:'], ['', '3905300000', '3. Poly(vinyl alcohol),whether or not containing unhydrolysed acetate groups'], ['200', '3906.10', '- Poly(methyl methacrylate):'], ['', '3906100000', 'Poly(methyl methacrylate)'], ['201', '3906.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3906909000', 'Other'], ['202', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers:'], ['', '3907202000', 'Polyoxypropylene(polypropylene glycol)'], ['203', '3907.40', '- Polycarbonates:'], ['', '3907400000', '4. Polycarbonates'], ['204', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10 or -6,12'], ['', '3908101000', 'Polyamide -6'], ['', '3908102000', 'Polyamide -6.6'], ['', '3908103000', 'Polyamide -11, -12, -6.9, -6.10, -6.12'], ['205', '3908.90', '- Other:'], ['', '3908900000', 'Other'], ['206', '4002.70', '- Ethylene-propylene-non-conjugated diene rubber (EPDM)'], ['', '4002709000', 'Other'], ['207', '4007.00', 'Vulcanised rubber thread and cord.'], ['', '4007001000', 'Rubber thread'], ['208', '4407.10', '- Coniferous:'], ['', '4407101000', 'Cedar'], ['', '4407102000', 'Oregon pine'], ['', '4407103000', 'Red pine'], ['', '4407104000', 'White wood or fir'], ['', '4407105000', 'Larch'], ['', '4407107000', 'Spruce'], ['', '4407108000', 'Radiata pine'], ['', '4407109000', 'Other'], ['209', '4407.24', '- Virola, Mahogany (Swietenia spp.), Imbuia and Balsa:'], ['', '4407241000', '(1)Virola'], ['', '4407242000', '(2)Mahogany (Swietenia spp.)'], ['', '4407243000', '(3)Imbuia'], ['', '4407244000', '(4)Balsa'], ['210', '4407.25', '- Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti Bakau:'], ['', '4407250000', 'B. Dark Red Meranti,Light Red Meranti,and Meranti Bakau'], ['211', '4407.26', '- White Lauan, White Meranti, White Seraya, Yellow Meranti and Alan:'], ['', '4407260000', 'C. White Lauan,White Meranti,White Seraya,Yellow Meranti and Alan'], ['212', '4407.29', '- Other:'], ['', '4407291000', '(1) Keruing,Ramin,Kapur,Jonkong,Merbau,Jelutong and Kempas'], ['', '4407292000', '(2) Teak'], ['', '4407293000', "(3)\nOkoume,Obeche,Sapelli,Sipo,Acajou,d'afrique,Makore,Iroko,Tiama,Mansonia,Ilo\nmba,Dibetou Limba and Azobe"], ['', '4407299000', '(4) Other'], ['213', '4407.91', '- Of oak (Quercus spp.):'], ['', '4407910000', 'A. Of oak (Quercus spp.)'], ['214', '4407.92', '- Of beech (Fagus spp.):'], ['', '4407920000', 'B. Of beech (Fagus spp.)'], ['215', '4407.99', '- Other:'], ['', '4407991010', 'Rosewood'], ['', '4407991020', 'Ebonywood'], ['', '4407991030', 'Ash'], ['', '4407991040', 'Walnut'], ['', '4407991090', 'Other'], ['', '4407992000', '(2) Lignum vitae'], ['', '4407993010', 'Aspen'], ['', '4407993020', 'Poplar'], ['', '4407993030', 'Maple'], ['', '4407993040', 'Elm'], ['', '4407993050', 'Birch'], ['', '4407993060', 'Basswood'], ['', '4407994000', '(4) Paulownia'], ['', '4407999010', '(a) Tropical woods,not specified in the foregoing'], ['', '4407999090', '(b) Other'], ['216', '4410.32', '- Surface-covered with melamine-impregnated paper'], ['', '4410320000', 'Surface-covered with melamine-impregnated paper'], ['217', '4410.33', '- Surface-covered with decorative laminates of plastics'], ['', '4410330000', 'Surface-covered with decorative laminates of plastics'], ['218', '4410.39', '- Other'], ['', '4410390000', 'Other'], ['219', '4410.90', '- Other'], ['', '4410900000', 'Other'], ['220', '4411.29', '- Other:'], ['', '4411291090', 'Other'], ['', '4411299000', 'Other'], ['221', '4411.31', '- Not mechanically worked or surface covered'], ['', '4411310000', 'Not mechanically worked or surface covered'], ['222', '4412.13', '- With at least one outer ply of tropical woods specified in'], ['', '4412131000', 'Of a thickness less than 3.2㎜'], ['', '4412132000', 'Of a thickness less than 4㎜ but not less than 3.2㎜'], ['', '4412133000', 'Of a thickness not more than 6㎜ but not less than 4㎜'], ['', '4412136000', 'Of a thickness not less than 15㎜'], ['223', '4412.14', '- Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous wood:'], ['', '4412141000', 'Of a thickness less than 3.2㎜'], ['', '4412142000', 'Of a thickness less than 4㎜ but not less than 3.2㎜'], ['', '4412143000', 'Of a thickness not more than 6㎜ but not less than 4㎜'], ['', '4412144000', 'Of a thickness less than 12㎜ but not less than 6㎜'], ['', '4412145000', 'Of a thickness less than 15㎜ but not less than 12㎜'], ['', '4412146000', 'Of a thickness not less than 15㎜'], ['224', '4412.19', '- Other:'], ['', '4412191011', 'Of a thickness less than 6㎜'], ['', '4412191019', 'Other'], ['', '4412191091', 'Of a thickness less than 6㎜'], ['', '4412191099', 'Other'], ['225', '4412.22', '- With at least one ply of tropical wood specified in Subheading'], ['', '4412220000', 'With at least one ply of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 1 to this\nChapter'], ['226', '4412.23', '- Other, containing at least one layer of particle board'], ['', '4412230000', 'Other,containing at least one layer of particle board'], ['227', '4412.29', '- Other'], ['', '4412291000', 'Plywood'], ['', '4412292090', 'Other'], ['228', '4412.92', '- With at least one ply of tropical wood specified in Subheading'], ['', '4412920000', 'With at least one ply of tropical wood specified in Subheading Note 1 to this\nChapter'], ['229', '4412.93', '- Other, containing at least one layer of particle board'], ['', '4412930000', 'Other,containing at least one layer of particle board'], ['230', '4412.99', '- Other'], ['', '4412991010', 'With both outer ply of coniferous wood'], ['', '4412991090', 'Other'], ['', '4412992090', 'Other'], ['231', '4413.00', 'Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips or profile shapes.'], ['', '4413000000', 'Densified wood,in blocks,plates,strips or profile shapes.'], ['232', '5106.10', '- Containing 85% or more by weight of wool'], ['', '5106101000', 'Of all wool'], ['', '5106109000', 'Other'], ['233', '5106.20', '- Containing less than 85% by weight of wool'], ['', '5106201000', 'Mixed with polyester fiber'], ['', '5106202000', 'Mixed with polyamide fiber'], ['', '5106203000', 'Mixed with acrylic fiber'], ['', '5106204000', 'Mixed with other synthetic fiber'], ['', '5106209000', 'Other'], ['234', '5107.10', '- Containing 85% or more by weight of wool'], ['', '5107101000', 'Of all wool'], ['', '5107102000', 'Mixed with synthetic fiber'], ['', '5107109000', 'Mixed with other fiber'], ['235', '5107.20', '- Containing less than 85% by weight of wool'], ['', '5107202000', 'Mixed with polyamide fiber,'], ['', '5107203000', 'Mixed with acrylic fiber,'], ['', '5107204000', 'Mixed with other synthetic fiber,'], ['', '5107209000', 'Mixed with other fiber'], ['236', '5108.10', '- Carded'], ['', '5108100000', 'Carded'], ['237', '5108.20', '- Combed'], ['', '5108200000', 'Combed'], ['238', '5109.10', '- Containing 85% or more by weight of wool or of fine animal hair'], ['', '5109101000', 'Yarn of wool'], ['', '5109109000', 'Yarn of fine animal hair'], ['239', '5109.90', '- Other'], ['', '5109901000', 'Yarn of wool'], ['', '5109909000', 'Yarn of fine animal hair'], ['240', '5110.00', 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair (including gimped horsehair yarn),'], ['', '5110000000', 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair(including gimped horsehair\nyarn),whether or not put up for retail sale.'], ['241', '5111.11', '- Of a weight not exceeding 300 g/m2:'], ['', '5111111000', 'Of wool'], ['242', '5204.11', '- Containing 85% or more by weight of cotton'], ['', '5204110000', 'Containing 85% or more by weight of cotton'], ['243', '5204.19', '- Other'], ['', '5204190000', 'Other'], ['244', '5205.21', '- Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding 14 metric number)'], ['', '5205211000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205219000', 'Other'], ['245', '5205.22', '- Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but not less than 232.56 decitex'], ['', '5205221000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205229000', 'Other'], ['246', '5205.23', '- Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31 decitex'], ['', '5205231000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205239000', 'Other'], ['247', '5205.24', '- Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but not less than 125 decitex'], ['', '5205241000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205249000', 'Other'], ['248', '5205.26', '- Measuring less than 125 decitex but not less than 106.38 decitex'], ['', '5205261000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205269000', 'Other'], ['249', '5205.27', '- Measuring less than 106.38 decitex but not less than 83.33 decitex'], ['', '5205271000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205279000', 'Other'], ['250', '5205.28', '- Measuring less than 83.33 decitex (exceeding 120 metric number)'], ['', '5205281000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205289000', 'Other'], ['251', '5205.41', '- Measuring per single yarn 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding'], ['', '5205411000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205419000', 'Other'], ['252', '5205.42', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 714.29 decitex but not less'], ['', '5205421000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205429000', 'Other'], ['253', '5205.43', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 232.56 decitex but not less'], ['', '5205431000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205439000', 'Other'], ['254', '5205.44', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 192.31 decitex but not less'], ['', '5205441000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205449000', 'Other'], ['255', '5205.46', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 125 decitex but not less than'], ['', '5205461000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205469000', 'Other'], ['256', '5205.47', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 106.38 decitex but not less'], ['', '5205471000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205479000', 'Other'], ['257', '5205.48', '- Measuring per single yarn less than 83.33 decitex (exceeding'], ['', '5205481000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized'], ['', '5205489000', 'Other'], ['258', '5208.12', '- Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/m2'], ['', '5208120000', 'Plain weave,weighing more than 100 g/㎡'], ['259', '5208.29', '- Other fabrics'], ['', '5208290000', 'Other fabrics'], ['260', '5402.33', '- Of polyesters'], ['', '5402330000', 'Of polyesters'], ['261', '5402.43', '- Of polyesters, other'], ['', '5402430000', 'Of polyesters,other'], ['262', '5402.49', '- Other'], ['', '5402499000', 'Other'], ['263', '6103.43', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['', '6103430000', 'Of synthetic fibres'], ['264', '6105.10', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6105100000', 'Of cotton'], ['265', '6105.20', '- Of man-made fibres:'], ['', '6105201000', 'Of synthetic fibres'], ['266', '6106.20', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '6106202000', 'Of artificial fibres'], ['267', '6109.90', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6109903010', 'T-shirts'], ['268', '6110.20', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6110200000', 'Of cotton'], ['269', '6115.99', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6115990000', 'Of other textile materials'], ['270', '6202.11', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6202110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['271', '6203.11', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6203110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['272', '6203.31', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6203310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['273', '6203.32', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6203320000', 'Of cotton'], ['274', '6203.41', '- Of wool or fine animal hair:'], ['', '6203410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['275', '6204.11', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6204110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['276', '6204.31', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6204310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['277', '6204.32', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6204320000', 'Of cotton'], ['278', '6204.51', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6204510000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['279', '6204.61', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['', '6204610000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['280', '6204.62', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6204629000', 'Other'], ['281', '6205.20', '- Of cotton'], ['', '6205200000', 'Of cotton'], ['282', '6208.29', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '6208290000', 'Of other textile materials'], ['283', '6212.10', '- Brassiéres:'], ['', '6212109000', 'Other'], ['284', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['', '6214100000', 'Of silk or silk waste'], ['285', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.'], ['', '6216009000', 'Other'], ['286', '6901.00', 'Bricks, blocks, tiles and other ceramic goods of siliceous fossil meals'], ['', '6901003000', 'Tiles'], ['287', '6907.90', '- Other:'], ['', '6907901000', 'Of porcelain or china'], ['', '6907909000', 'Other'], ['288', '6908.90', '- Other:'], ['', '6908909000', 'Other'], ['289', '6909.11', '- Of porcelain or china'], ['', '6909110000', 'Of porcelain or china'], ['290', '6910.10', '- Of porcelain or china'], ['', '6910101000', 'Wash basins'], ['', '6910103000', 'Water closet pans'], ['291', '7005.21', '- Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or'], ['', '7005212000', 'More than 2㎜ but not more than 3㎜ in thickness'], ['', '7005213000', 'More than 3㎜ but not more than 4㎜ in thickness'], ['292', '7408.11', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6 mm:'], ['', '7408110000', 'Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6㎜'], ['293', '8408.10', '- Marine propulsion engines:'], ['', '8408101000', 'With a rating not exceeding 300kw'], ['', '8408102000', 'With a rating more than 300kw,not exceeding 2,000kw'], ['', '8408103000', 'With a rating more than 2,000kw'], ['294', '8408.90', '- Other engines:'], ['', '8408909010', '(1) Internal combustion engines for ships'], ['295', '8409.99', '- Other:'], ['', '8409993010', 'Of internal combustion engines with a rating not exceeding 300kw'], ['', '8409993020', 'Of internal combustion engins with a rating exceeding 300kw,but not exceeding\n2,000kw'], ['296', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for internal combustion piston\nengines:'], ['', '8413303000', 'For marine'], ['297', '8482.10', '- Ball bearings'], ['', '8482100000', '1. Ball bearings'], ['298', '8506.10', '- Manganese dioxide:'], ['', '8506101000', 'A. Manganese batteries'], ['', '8506102000', 'B. Alkali manganese batteries'], ['299', '8544.51', '- Fitted with connectors:'], ['', '8544519090', 'Other'], ['300', '8544.59', '- Other:'], ['', '8544591000', 'Rubber insulated wire'], ['301', '8544.60', '- For a voltage exceeding 1 kV but not exceeding 36 kV:'], ['', '8544603010', 'Plastic insulated wire'], ['302', '8712.00', 'Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery tricycles), not motorised.'], ['', '8712001000', 'Racing bicycles'], ['', '8712009010', 'For transportation of goods'], ['', '8712009020', 'Tricycles'], ['', '8712009090', 'Other'], ['303', '8714.91', '- Frames and forks, and parts thereof:'], ['', '8714911000', 'Frames'], ['', '8714912000', 'Forks'], ['', '8714919000', 'Other parts'], ['304', '8714.92', '- Wheel rims and spokes:'], ['', '8714921000', 'Wheel Rims'], ['', '8714922000', 'Spokes'], ['305', '8714.93', '- Hubs, other than coaster braking hubs and hub brakes, and'], ['', '8714931000', 'Hubs, other than coaster braking hubs and hub brakes'], ['', '8714932000', 'Free-wheel sprocket-wheels'], ['306', '8714.94', '- Brakes, including coaster braking hubs and hub brakes, and parts thereof:'], ['', '8714941000', 'Coaster braking hubs and hub brakes'], ['', '8714942000', 'Other brakes'], ['', '8714949000', 'Parts thereof'], ['307', '8714.95', '- Saddles:'], ['', '8714950000', 'Saddles'], ['308', '8714.96', '- Pedals and crank-gear, and parts thereof:'], ['', '8714961000', 'Pedals'], ['', '8714962000', 'Crankgear'], ['', '8714969000', 'Parts thereof'], ['309', '8714.99', '- Other:'], ['', '8714990000', 'Other'], ['310', '9406.00', 'Prefabricated buildings.'], ['', '9406001000', 'Of wood']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Lao PDR:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0103.92', '- Weighing equal or more than 50 kg.'], ['2', '0105.11', '- Fowls of the species Gallus domestic'], ['3', '0105.19', '- Other.'], ['4', '0105.92', '- Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than\n2,000 g'], ['5', '0105.99', '- Other.'], ['6', '0106.12', '- Whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the order Cetacea); manatees and\ndugongs (mammals of the order Sirenia)'], ['7', '0504.00', 'Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than fish), whole and\npieces thereof, fresh, chilled frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked.'], ['8', '1006.10', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['9', '1006.20', '- Husked (brown) rice'], ['10', '1006.30', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed'], ['11', '1006.40', '- Broken'], ['12', '1701.91', '- Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['13', '2401.10', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped'], ['14', '2401.20', '- Tobacco, partly or wholly stemmed/stripped'], ['15', '2401.30', '- Tobacco refuse:'], ['16', '3003.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a penicillanic acid structure,\nor streptomycins or their derivatives'], ['17', '3003.20', '- Containing other antibiotics'], ['18', '3003.31', '- Containing insulin'], ['19', '3003.39', '- Other'], ['20', '3003.40', '- Containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof but not containing hormones or other\nproducts of heading 29.37 or antibiotics'], ['21', '3003.90', '- Other'], ['22', '3004.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a penicillanic acid structure,\nor streptomycins or their derivatives'], ['23', '3004.20', '- Containing other antibiotics'], ['24', '3004.31', '- Containing insulin'], ['25', '3004.32', '- Containing corticosteroid hormones, their derivatives and structural analogues'], ['26', '3004.39', '- Other'], ['27', '3004.40', '- Containing alkaloids or derivatives thereof but not containing hormones, other\nproducts of heading 29.37 or antibiotics'], ['28', '3004.50', '- Other medicaments containing vitamins or other products of heading 29.36'], ['29', '3004.90', '- Other'], ['30', '3925.10', '- Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, of a capacity exceeding 300 l'], ['31', '3925.20', '- Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for doors'], ['32', '3925.30', '- Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts thereof'], ['33', '3925.90', '- Other'], ['34', '3926.10', '- Office or school supplies'], ['35', '3926.20', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and mitts)'], ['36', '3926.30', '- Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the like'], ['37', '3926.40', '- Statuettes and other ornamental articles'], ['38', '3926.90', '- Other'], ['39', '4010.11', '- Reinforced only with metal'], ['40', '4010.12', '- Reinforced only with textile materials'], ['41', '4010.13', '- Reinforced only with plastics'], ['42', '4010.19', '- Other'], ['43', '4010.31', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['44', '4010.32', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['45', '4010.33', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm'], ['46', '4010.34', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm'], ['47', '4010.35', '- Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not\nexceeding 150 cm'], ['48', '4010.36', '- Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 150 cm but\nnot exceeding 198 cm'], ['49', '4010.39', '- Other'], ['50', '4011.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['51', '4011.20', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['52', '4011.30', '- Of a kind used on aircraft'], ['53', '4011.40', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles'], ['54', '4011.50', '- Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['55', '4011.61', '- Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry vehicles and machines'], ['56', '4011.62', '- of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size not exceeding 61 cm'], ['57', '4011.63', '- Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size exceeding 61 cm'], ['58', '4011.69', '- Other'], ['59', '4011.92', '- Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry vehicles and machines'], ['60', '4011.93', '- Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size not exceeding 61 cm'], ['61', '4011.94', '- Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size exceeding 61 cm'], ['62', '4011.99', '- Other'], ['63', '4012.11', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['64', '4012.12', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['65', '4012.13', '- Of a kind used on aircraft'], ['66', '4012.19', '- Other'], ['67', '4012.20', '- Used pneumatic tyres'], ['68', '4012.90', '- Other'], ['69', '4013.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars), buses\nor lorries'], ['70', '4013.20', '- Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['71', '4013.90', '- Other'], ['72', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel'], ['73', '4203.21', '- Specially designed for use in sports'], ['74', '4203.29', '- Other gloves, mittens and mitts'], ['75', '4203.30', '- Belts and bandoliers'], ['76', '4203.40', '- Other clothing accessories'], ['77', '4204.00', 'Articles of leather or of composition leather of a kind used in machinery or\nmechanical appliances or for other technical uses.'], ['78', '4205.00', 'Other articles of leather or of composition leather.'], ['79', '4206.10', '- Catgut'], ['80', '4206.90', '- Other'], ['81', '4301.10', '- Of mink, whole, with or without head, tail or paws'], ['82', '4301.30', '- Of lamb, the following: Astrakhan, Broadtail, Caracul, Persian and similar lamb,\nIndian, Chinese, Mongolian or Tibetan lamb, whole, with or without head, tail or\npaws'], ['83', '4301.60', '- Of fox, whole, with or without head, tail or paws'], ['84', '4301.70', '- Of seal, whole, with or without head, tail or paws'], ['85', '4301.80', '- Other furskins, whole, with or without head, tail or paws'], ['86', '4301.90', "- Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings, suitable for furriers' use"], ['87', '4302.11', '- Of mink'], ['88', '4302.13', '- Of lamb, the following: Astrakhan, Broadtail, Caracul, Persian and similar lamb,\nIndian, Chinese, Mongolian or Tibetan lamb'], ['89', '4302.19', '- Other'], ['90', '4302.20', '- Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings, not assembled'], ['91', '4302.30', '- Whole skins and pieces or cuttings thereof, assembled'], ['92', '4501.10', '- Natural cork, raw or simply prepared'], ['93', '4501.90', '- Other'], ['94', '4502.00', 'Natural cork, debarked or roughly squared, or in rectangular (including square)\nblocks, plates, sheets or strip (including sharp-edged blanks for corks or stoppers)'], ['95', '4503.10', '- Corks and stoppers'], ['96', '4503.90', '- Other'], ['97', '4504.10', '- Blocks, plates, sheets and strip; tiles of any shape; solid cylinders, including\ndiscs'], ['98', '4504.90', '- Other'], ['99', '4818.10', '- Toilet paper'], ['100', '4818.20', '- Handkerchiefs, cleansing or facial tissues and towels'], ['101', '4818.30', '- Tablecloths and serviettes'], ['102', '4818.40', '- Sanitary towels and tampons, napkins and napkin liners for babies and similar\nsanitary articles'], ['103', '4818.50', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories'], ['104', '4818.90', '- Other'], ['105', '6101.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['106', '6101.20', '- Of cotton'], ['107', '6101.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['108', '6101.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['109', '6102.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['110', '6102.20', '- Of cotton'], ['111', '6102.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['112', '6102.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['113', '6103.11', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['114', '6103.12', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['115', '6103.19', '- Of other textile materials'], ['116', '6103.21', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['117', '6103.22', '- Of cotton'], ['118', '6103.23', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['119', '6103.29', '- Of other textile materials'], ['120', '6103.31', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['121', '6103.32', '- Of cotton'], ['122', '6103.33', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['123', '6103.39', '- Of other textile materials'], ['124', '6103.41', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['125', '6103.42', '- Of cotton'], ['126', '6103.43', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['127', '6103.49', '- Of other textile materials'], ['128', '6104.11', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['129', '6104.12', '- Of cotton'], ['130', '6104.13', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['131', '6104.19', '- Of other textile materials'], ['132', '6104.21', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['133', '6104.22', '- Of cotton'], ['134', '6104.23', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['135', '6104.29', '- Of other textile materials'], ['136', '6104.31', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['137', '6104.32', '- Of cotton'], ['138', '6104.33', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['139', '6104.39', '- Of other textile materials'], ['140', '6104.41', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['141', '6104.42', '- Of cotton'], ['142', '6104.43', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['143', '6104.44', '- Of artificial fibres'], ['144', '6104.49', '- Of other textile materials'], ['145', '6104.51', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['146', '6104.52', '- Of cotton'], ['147', '6104.53', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['148', '6104.59', '- Of other textile materials'], ['149', '6104.61', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['150', '6104.62', '- Of cotton'], ['151', '6104.63', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['152', '6104.69', '- Of other textile materials'], ['153', '6105.10', '- Of cotton'], ['154', '6105.20', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['155', '6105.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['156', '6106.10', '- Of cotton'], ['157', '6106.20', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['158', '6106.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['159', '6107.11', '- Of cotton'], ['160', '6107.12', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['161', '6107.19', '- Of other textile materials'], ['162', '6107.21', '- Of cotton'], ['163', '6107.22', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['164', '6107.29', '- Of other textile materials'], ['165', '6107.91', '- Of cotton'], ['166', '6107.92', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['167', '6107.99', '- Of other textile materials'], ['168', '6108.11', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['169', '6108.19', '- Of other textile materials'], ['170', '6108.21', '- Of cotton'], ['171', '6108.22', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['172', '6108.29', '- Of other textile materials'], ['173', '6108.31', '- Of cotton'], ['174', '6108.32', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['175', '6108.39', '- Of other textile materials'], ['176', '6108.91', '- Of cotton'], ['177', '6108.92', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['178', '6108.99', '- Of other textile materials'], ['179', '6109.10', '- Of cotton'], ['180', '6109.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['181', '6702.10', '- Of plastics'], ['182', '6702.90', '- Of other materials'], ['183', '8214.10', '- Paper knives, letter openers, erasing knives, pencil sharpeners and blades\ntherefore'], ['184', '8214.20', '- Manicure or pedicure sets and instruments (including nail files)'], ['185', '8214.90', '- Other'], ['186', '8414.51', '- Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans, with a self-contained electric\nmotor of an output not exceeding 125 W'], ['187', '8414.59', '- Other'], ['188', '8414.60', '- Hoods having a maximum horizontal side not exceeding 120 cm'], ['189', '8414.80', '- Other'], ['190', '8414.90', '- Parts'], ['191', '8415.10', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system"'], ['192', '8415.20', '- Of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles'], ['193', '8415.81', '- Incorporating a refrigerating unit and a valve for reversal of the cooling/heat\ncycle (reversible heat pumps)'], ['194', '8415.82', '- Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit'], ['195', '8415.83', '- Not incorporating a refrigerating unit'], ['196', '8415.90', '- Parts'], ['197', '8418.10', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors'], ['198', '8418.21', '- Compression-type'], ['199', '8418.22', '- Absorption-type, electrical'], ['200', '8418.29', '- Other'], ['201', '8418.30', '- Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding 800 l capacity'], ['202', '8418.40', '- Freezers of the upright type, not exceeding 900 l capacity'], ['203', '8418.50', '- Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display counters, show-cases and\nsimilar refrigerating or freezing furniture'], ['204', '8418.61', '- Compression type units whose condensers are heat exchangers'], ['205', '8418.69', '- Other'], ['206', '8418.91', '- Furniture designed to receive refrigerating or freezing equipment'], ['207', '8418.99', '- Other'], ['208', '8422.30', '- Machinery for filling, closing, sealing, capsuling or labelling\nbottles, cans, boxes, bags or other containers; machinery for capsuling bottles,\njars, tubes and similar containers; machinery for aerating beverages'], ['209', '8422.40', '- Other packing or wrapping machinery (including heat-shrink wrapping\nmachinery)'], ['210', '8422.90', '- Parts.'], ['211', '8423.10', '- Personal weighing machines, including baby scales; household\nscales'], ['212', '8423.20', '- Scales for continuous weighing of goods on conveyors.'], ['213', '8423.30', '- Constant weight scales and scales for discharging a\npredetermined weight of material into a bag or container, including hopper scales'], ['214', '8423.81', '- Having a maximum weighing capacity not exceeding 30 kg'], ['215', '8423.82', '- Having a maximum weighing capacity not exceeding 30 kg but\nnot exceeding 5,000 kg'], ['216', '8423.89', '- Other.'], ['217', '8423.90', '- Weighing machine weights of all kinds; parts of weighing\nmachinery'], ['218', '8424.10', '- Fire extinguishers, whether or not charged'], ['219', '8424.20', '- Spray guns and similar appliances'], ['220', '8424.30', '- Steam or sand blasting machines and similar jet projecting machines'], ['221', '8424.81', '- Agricultural or horticulteral'], ['222', '8424.89', '- Other'], ['223', '8424.90', '- Parts'], ['224', '8425.11', '- Powered by electric motor'], ['225', '8425.19', '- Other'], ['226', '8425.20', '- Pit - head winding gear; winches apecially designed for use underground'], ['227', '8425.31', '- Powered by electric motor'], ['228', '8425.39', '- Other'], ['229', '8425.41', '- Built - in jacking systems of a type used in garages'], ['230', '8425.42', '- Other jacks and hoists, hydraulic'], ['231', '8425.49', '- Other.'], ['232', '8426.11', '- on fixed support'], ['233', '8426.20', '- Tower cranes'], ['234', '8426.30', '- Portal or pedestal jib cranes'], ['235', '8426.41', '- On tyres'], ['236', '8526.49', '- Other'], ['237', '8427.90', '– Other trucks'], ['238', '8428.39', '- Other'], ['239', '8429.11', '– Track laying'], ['240', '8429.20', '- Graders and levelers'], ['241', '8429.30', '- Scrapers'], ['242', '8429.40', '- Tamping machines and road roller'], ['243', '8429.59', '- Other'], ['244', '8516.10', '- Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters'], ['245', '8516.21', '- Storage heating radiators'], ['246', '8516.29', '- Other'], ['247', '8516.31', '- Hair dryers'], ['248', '8516.32', '- Other hair-dressing apparatus'], ['249', '8516.33', '- Hand-drying apparatus'], ['250', '8516.40', '- Electric smoothing irons'], ['251', '8516.50', '- Microwave ovens'], ['252', '8516.60', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters'], ['253', '8516.71', '- Coffee or tea makers'], ['254', '8516.72', '- Toasters'], ['255', '8516.79', '- Other'], ['256', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors'], ['257', '8516.90', '- Parts'], ['258', '8517.11', '- Line telephone sets with cordless handsets'], ['259', '8517.19', '- Other'], ['260', '8517.21', '- Facsimile machines'], ['261', '8517.22', '- Teleprinters'], ['262', '8517.30', '- Telephonic or telegraphic switching apparatus'], ['263', '8517.50', '- Other apparatus, for carrier-current line systems or for digital line systems'], ['264', '8517.80', '- Other apparatus'], ['265', '8517.90', '- Parts'], ['266', '8518.10', '- Microphones and stands therefor'], ['267', '8518.21', '- Single loudspeakers, mounted in their enclosures'], ['268', '8518.22', '- Multiple loudspeakers, mounted in the same enclosure'], ['269', '8518.29', '- Other'], ['270', '8518.30', '- Headphones and earphones, whether or not combined with a microphone, and\nsets consisting of a microphone and one or more loudspeakers'], ['271', '8518.40', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers'], ['272', '8518.50', '- Electric sound amplifier sets'], ['273', '8518.90', '- Parts'], ['274', '8519.10', '- Coin- or disc-operated record-players'], ['275', '8519.21', '- Without loudspeaker'], ['276', '8519.29', '- Other'], ['277', '8519.31', '- With automatic record changing mechanism'], ['278', '8519.39', '- Other'], ['279', '8519.40', '- Transcribing machines'], ['280', '8519.92', '- Pocket-size cassette-players'], ['281', '8519.93', '- Other, cassette type'], ['282', '8519.99', '- Other'], ['283', '8520.10', '- Dictating machines not capable of operating without an external source of power'], ['284', '8520.20', '- Telephone answering machines'], ['285', '8520.32', '- Digital audio type'], ['286', '8520.33', '- Other, cassette-type'], ['287', '8520.39', '- Other'], ['288', '8520.90', '- Other'], ['289', '8521.10', '- Magnetic tape-type'], ['290', '8521.90', '- Other'], ['291', '8522.10', '- Pick-up cartridges'], ['292', '8522.90', '- Other'], ['293', '8523.11', '- Of a width not exceeding 4mm'], ['294', '8523.12', '- Of a width exceeding 4mm but not exceeding 6.5mm'], ['295', '8523.13', '- Of a width exceeding 6.5mm'], ['296', '8523.20', '- Magnetic discs'], ['297', '8523.30', '- Cards incorporating a magnetic stripe'], ['298', '8523.90', '- Other'], ['299', '8524.10', '- Gramophone records'], ['300', '8524.31', '- For reproducing phenomena other than sound or image'], ['301', '8524.32', '- For reproducing sound only'], ['302', '8524.39', '- Other'], ['303', '8524.40', '- Magnetic tapes for reproducing phenomena other than sound or image'], ['304', '8524.51', '- Of a width not exceeding 4 mm'], ['305', '8524.52', '- Of a width exceeding 4 mm but not exceeding 6.5 mm'], ['306', '8524.53', '- Of a width exceeding 6.5 mm'], ['307', '8524.60', '- Cards incorporating a magnetic stripe'], ['308', '8524.91', '- For reproducing phenomena other than sound or image'], ['309', '8524.99', '- Other'], ['310', '8527.12', '- Pocket-size radio cassette-players'], ['311', '8527.13', '- Other apparatus combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['312', '8527.19', '- Other'], ['313', '8527.21', '- Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['314', '8527.29', '- Other'], ['315', '8527.31', '- Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['316', '8527.32', '- Not combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus but combined with\na clock'], ['317', '8527.39', '- Other'], ['318', '8527.90', '- Other'], ['319', '8528.12', '- Colour'], ['320', '8528.13', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['321', '8528.21', '- Colour'], ['322', '8528.22', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['323', '8528.30', '- Video projectors'], ['324', '8529.10', '- Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith'], ['325', '8529.90', '- Other'], ['326', '8714.20', '- Of carriages for disabled persons']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Malaysia:   
[['BIL', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '040110', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1%'], ['', '040110900', '-Other'], ['2', '040120', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1% but not exceeding 6%'], ['', '040120900', '-Other'], ['3', '040130', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6%'], ['', '040130900', '-Other'], ['4', '080300', '-Bananas, incl. plantains, fresh or dried'], ['', '080300100', '-pisang mas'], ['', '080300200', '-pisang rastali'], ['', '080300300', '-pisang berangan'], ['', '080300400', '-pisang embun'], ['', '080300900', '-other'], ['5', '080430', 'Fresh or dried pineapples'], ['', '080430000', '- Pineapples'], ['6', '080450', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens'], ['', '080450100', '-guavas'], ['', '080450200', '-mangoes'], ['', '080450300', '-mangosteens'], ['7', '080711', 'Fresh watermelons'], ['', '080711000', '-Watermelons'], ['8', '080719', 'Other'], ['', '080719000', '- Other'], ['9', '080720', 'Fresh pawpaws "papayas"'], ['', '080720100', '-Mardi backcross solo (betik solo)'], ['', '080720900', '-Other'], ['10', '081060', '- Durians'], ['', '081060000', '- Durians'], ['11', '081090', '- Other'], ['', '081090110', '-rambutan'], ['', '081090130', '-langsat'], ['', '081090140', '-jack fruit (cempedak and nangka)'], ['', '081090150', '-mata kucing (including longan)'], ['', '081090160', '-cikus'], ['', '081090170', '-star fruits'], ['', '081090190', '-Other'], ['12', '250820', "Decolourizing earths and fuller's earth"], ['', '250820100', "-fuller's earth"], ['13', '252329', '- Other'], ['', '252329100', '-coloured cements'], ['14', '280610', 'Hydrogen chloride "hydrochloric acid"'], ['', '280610000', '- Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid)'], ['15', '280700', '-Sulphuric acid; oleum'], ['', '280700000', '-Sulphuric acid; oleum'], ['16', '280910', 'Diphosphorous pentaoxide'], ['', '280910000', '- Diphosphorus pentaoxide'], ['17', '280920', 'Phosphoric acid, polyphosphoric acids:polyphosphoric acids'], ['', '280920190', '-Other'], ['', '280920910', '-orthophosporic acid'], ['', '280920990', '-Other'], ['18', '281511', 'Solid'], ['', '281511000', '- Solid'], ['19', '281512', '-In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['', '281512000', '- In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['20', '281700', '-Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide.'], ['', '281700000', '-Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide'], ['21', '282300', '-Titanium oxides'], ['', '282300000', '-Titanium oxides'], ['22', '282890', '- Other'], ['', '282890100', '-sodium hypochlorite'], ['23', '283322', '- Of aluminium'], ['', '283322000', '- Of aluminium'], ['24', '283911', '- Sodium metasilicates'], ['', '283911000', '- Sodium metasilicates'], ['25', '283919', '- Other'], ['', '283919000', '- Other'], ['26', '284910', '- Of calcium'], ['', '284910000', '- Of calcium'], ['27', '290311', 'Chloromethane (methyl chloride) and chloroethane (ethyl chloride)'], ['', '290311100', '-Chloromethane "methyl chloride" and chloroethane "ethyl chloride"'], ['28', '292242', 'Glutamic acid and its salts'], ['', '292242100', '-glutamic acid'], ['', '292242200', '-monosodium glutamate'], ['29', '320611', 'Containing 80% or more by weight of titanium dioxide calculated on the dry\nmatter'], ['', '320611000', '- Containing 80% or more by weight of titanium dioxide calculated on the dry\nmatter'], ['30', '320619', 'Other'], ['', '320619000', '- Other'], ['31', '320810', 'Based on polyesters'], ['', '320810000', '- Based on polyesters'], ['32', '321290', 'Other'], ['', '321290190', '-Other ;Dye put up for retail sale'], ['33', '330520', 'Preparations for permanent waving or straightening'], ['', '330520000', '- Preparations for permanent waving or straightening'], ['34', '330530', 'Hair lacquers'], ['', '330530000', '- Hair lacquers'], ['35', '340600', 'Candles, tapers, and the like.'], ['', '340600100', '-Of paraffin wax'], ['', '340600900', '-Of other materials'], ['36', '360410', 'Fireworks'], ['', '360410000', '- Fireworks'], ['37', '360490', 'Other'], ['', '360490200', '-miniature pyrotechnic ammunition and percussion caps for toys']]
  360490900 -Other 
[['38', '381400', 'Organic composite solvents and thinners, not elsewhere specified or included;\nprepared paint or varnish removers.'], ['', '381400100', '-paint removers'], ['', '381400200', '-thinners'], ['', '381400300', '-organic composite solvents containing CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114\nand/or CFC-115'], ['', '381400900', '-Other'], ['39', '390110', 'Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94'], ['', '390110000', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94'], ['40', '390120', 'Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or more'], ['', '390120000', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or more'], ['41', '390210', 'Polypropylene'], ['', '390210300', '-resins'], ['42', '390230', 'Propylene copolymers'], ['', '390230000', '- Propylene copolymers'], ['43', '391530', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['', '391530100', '-non-rigid cellular products in the form of blocks'], ['', '391530900', '-Other'], ['44', '391690', 'Of other plastics'], ['', '391690290', '-Other'], ['45', '391810', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['', '391810900', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['46', '391990', 'Other'], ['', '391990190', '-Of hardened protiens'], ['', '391990911', '-of polypropylene'], ['47', '392020', 'Of polymers of propylene'], ['', '392020100', '-Plates and sheets'], ['48', '392030', 'Of polymers of styrene'], ['', '392030120', '-tiles'], ['49', '392043', 'Containing by weight not less than 6% of plasticisers'], ['', '392043110', '-tiles'], ['50', '392049', 'Other'], ['', '392049000', '-Other'], ['51', '392061', 'Of polycarbonates'], ['', '392061290', '-Other'], ['52', '392069', 'Of other polyesters'], ['', '392069900', '-Other'], ['53', '392091', 'Of poly(vinyl butyral)'], ['', '392091120', '-tiles'], ['54', '392093', 'Of amino-resins'], ['', '392093900', '-Other'], ['55', '392094', 'Of phenolic resins'], ['', '392094190', '-Other'], ['56', '392099', 'Of other plastics'], ['', '392099290', '-Other'], ['57', '392111', 'Of polymers of styrene'], ['', '392111100', '-Plates and sheets'], ['', '392111200', '-Film'], ['', '392111910', '-non-rigid blocks'], ['', '392111990', '-Other']]
58 392112 Of polymers of vinyl chloride 
[['', '392112000', '-polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['59', '392113', 'Of polyurethanes'], ['', '392113100', '- polyurethanes: Plates and sheets'], ['60', '392114', 'Of regenerated cellulose'], ['', '392114200', '-film'], ['61', '392119', 'Of other plastic'], ['', '392119103', '-plates and sheets'], ['', '392119104', '-film'], ['', '392119109', '-Other'], ['', '392119120', '-plates and sheets'], ['', '392119199', '-Other'], ['62', '392330', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar articles'], ['', '392330000', '-Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar articles'], ['63', '392530', 'Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts thereof'], ['', '392530000', '- Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts thereof'], ['64', '392610', 'Office or school supplies'], ['', '392610000', '- Office or school supplies'], ['65', '392690', 'Other'], ['', '392690190', '-Other'], ['', '392690990', '-Other'], ['66', '400911', 'Without fittings'], ['', '400911000', '- Without fittings'], ['67', '400912', '- With fittings'], ['', '400912000', '- With fittings'], ['68', '400921', 'Without fittings'], ['', '400921000', '- Without fittings'], ['69', '400922', 'With fittings'], ['', '400922000', '- With fittings'], ['70', '400931', 'Without fittings'], ['', '400931000', '- Without fittings'], ['71', '400932', '- With fittings'], ['', '400932000', '- With fittings'], ['72', '400942', 'With fittings'], ['', '400942000', '- With fittings'], ['73', '401011', 'Reinforced only with metal'], ['', '401011000', '- Reinforced only with metal'], ['74', '401013', 'Reinforced only with plastics'], ['', '401013000', '- Reinforced only with plastics'], ['75', '401019', 'Other'], ['', '401019000', '- Other'], ['76', '401031', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['', '401031000', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['77', '401032', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['', '401032000', '-Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm'], ['78', '401033', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm']]
  401033000 - Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm 
[['79', '401034', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm'], ['', '401034000', '- Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240 cm'], ['80', '401035', 'Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not\nexceeding 150 cm'], ['', '401035000', '- Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not\nexceeding 150 cm'], ['81', '401036', 'Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 150 cm but not\nexceeding 198 cm'], ['', '401036000', '- Endless synchronous belts, of an outside circumference exceeding 150 cm but\nnot exceeding 198 cm'], ['82', '401039', 'Other'], ['', '401039100', 'Of an trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts) other than those of subheading 4010.31\n000, 4010.32 000, 4010.33 000 and 4010.34 000'], ['', '401039900', 'Other'], ['83', '401110', 'Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['', '401110000', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['84', '401120', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['', '401120000', '- Of kind used on buses on lorries'], ['85', '401130', 'Of a kind used on aircraft'], ['', '401130000', '- Of a kind used on aircraft'], ['86', '401140', 'Of a kind used on motorcycles'], ['', '401140000', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles'], ['87', '401150', 'Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['', '401150000', '- Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['88', '401161', 'Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry vehicles and machines'], ['', '401161100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401161900', '-Other'], ['89', '401162', 'Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size not exceeding 61 cm'], ['', '401162100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401162200', '-Of a kind used on forklift and industrial equipment'], ['', '401162900', '-Other'], ['90', '401163', 'Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size exceeding 61 cm'], ['', '401163100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401163200', '-Of a kind used on forklift and industrial equipment'], ['', '401163900', '-Other'], ['91', '401169', 'Other'], ['', '401169000', '- Other'], ['92', '401192', 'Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry vehicles and machines'], ['', '401192100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401192200', '-Of a kind used on wheel-barrows'], ['', '401192900', '-Other'], ['93', '401193', 'Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and\nhaving a rim size not exceeding 61 cm'], ['', '401193100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401193200', '-Of a kind used on wheel-barrows'], ['', '401193300', '-Of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['', '401193900', '-Other']]
94 401194 Of a kind used on construction or industrial handling vehicles and machines and having a rim size exceeding 61 cm     
[['', '401194100', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401194200', '-Of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['', '401194900', '-Other'], ['95', '401199', 'Other'], ['', '401199000', '- Other'], ['96', '401212', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['', '401212000', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['97', '401219', 'Other'], ['', '401219100', '-Of a kind used on motor cycles including motor scooters'], ['', '401219200', '-Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['', '401219310', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401219410', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401219420', '-Of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['', '401219510', '-Of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401219520', '-Of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['98', '401699', 'Other'], ['', '401699100', '-parts and accessories of vehicles of headings 87.02, 87.03, 87.04 and 87.05'], ['', '401699200', '-parts and accessories of vehicles of heading 87.11parts and accessories of\nvehicles of heading no 87.12 :'], ['', '401699310', '-parts'], ['', '401699321', '-mudguards'], ['', '401699329', '-other'], ['', '401699400', '-parts and accessories of vehicles of heading 87.13'], ['', '401699500', '-parts and accessories of rotochutes of heading 88.04'], ['', '401699600', '-rubber band'], ['', '401699700', '-deck fenders'], ['', '401699800', '-structural bearings (including bridge bearings)'], ['', '401699910', '-rail pad'], ['', '401699990', '-other'], ['99', '420219', 'Other'], ['', '420219900', '-other'], ['100', '420229', 'Other'], ['', '420229000', '- Other'], ['102', '420292', 'With outer surface of plastic sheeting or of textile materials'], ['', '420292900', 'other'], ['103', '480100', 'Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.'], ['', '480100100', '-in rolls'], ['104', '540110', 'Of synthetic filaments'], ['', '540110100', '-put up for retail sale'], ['105', '550810', 'Of synthetic staple fibres'], ['', '550810100', 'put up for retail sale'], ['', '550810200', 'not put up for retail sale'], ['106', '550820', '- Of artificial staple fibres'], ['', '550820100', 'put up for retail sale'], ['', '550820200', 'not put up for retail sale'], ['107', '551110', '- Of synthetic staple fibres, containing 85% or more by weight of such fibres'], ['', '551110900', 'other'], ['108', '551120', '- Of synthetic staple fibres, containing less than 85% by weight of such fibres'], ['', '551120900', 'other']]
 109 560110 - Sanitary towels and tampons, napkins and napkin liners for babies and similar sanitary articles, of wadding 
[['', '560110100', 'sanitary towels'], ['110', '580124', '- Warp pile fabrics, épinglé (uncut)'], ['', '580124110', 'with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other plastics'], ['', '580124120', 'with oil or preparations with a basis of drying oil'], ['', '580124130', 'with rubber'], ['', '580124190', 'other'], ['', '580124900', 'Other'], ['111', '580125', '- Warp pile fabrics, cut'], ['', '580125110', 'with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other plastics'], ['', '580125120', 'with oil or preparations with a basis of drying oil'], ['', '580125130', 'with rubber'], ['', '580125190', 'other'], ['', '580125900', 'Other'], ['112', '580133', '- Other weft pile fabrics'], ['', '580133110', 'with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other plastics'], ['', '580133120', 'with oil or preparations with a basis of drying oil'], ['', '580133130', 'with rubber'], ['', '580133190', 'other'], ['', '580133900', 'Other'], ['113', '580134', '- Warp pile fabrics, épinglé (uncut)'], ['', '580134110', 'with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other plastics'], ['', '580134120', 'with oil or preparations with a basis of drying oil'], ['', '580134130', 'with rubber'], ['', '580134190', 'other'], ['', '580134900', 'Other'], ['114', '581092', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '581092000', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['115', '600121', '- Of cotton'], ['', '600121000', '- Of cotton'], ['116', '600122', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '600122000', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['117', '600191', '- Of cotton'], ['', '600191000', '- Of cotton'], ['118', '600192', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['', '600192000', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['119', '610899', '- Of other textile materials'], ['', '610899000', '- Of other textile materials'], ['120', '611599', '- Of other textile materials'], ['', '611599000', '- Of other textile materials'], ['121', '620319', '- Of other textile materials'], ['', '620319000', '- Of other textile materials'], ['122', '620469', '- Of other textile materials'], ['', '620469000', '- Of other textile materials'], ['123', '620590', '- Of other textile materials'], ['', '620590000', '- Of other textile materials'], ['124', '621290', '- Other'], ['', '621290900', 'other'], ['125', '621600', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.'], ['', '621600900', 'of other textile materials']]
 126 630392 - Of synthetic fibres 
[['', '630392000', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['127', '640219', '- Other'], ['', '640219000', '- Other'], ['128', '640220', '- Footwear with upper straps or thongs assembled to the sole by means of plugs'], ['', '640220000', '- Footwear with upper straps or thongs assembled to the sole by means of plugs'], ['129', '640230', '- Other footwear, incorporating a protective metal toe-cap'], ['', '640230000', '- Other footwear, incorporating a protective metal toe-cap'], ['130', '640291', '- Covering the ankle'], ['', '640291000', '- Covering the ankle'], ['131', '640299', '- Other'], ['', '640299000', '- Other'], ['132', '640319', '- Other'], ['', '640319900', 'other'], ['133', '640330', '- Footwear made on a base or platform of wood, not having an inner sole or a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['', '640330000', '- Footwear made on a base or platform of wood, not having an inner sole or a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['134', '640411', '- Sports footwear; tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym shoes, training shoes and\nthe like'], ['', '640411000', '- Sports footwear, tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym shoes, training shoes and\nthe like'], ['135', '640699', '- Of other materials'], ['', '640699912', '-middle or inner soles'], ['', '640699919', 'other'], ['', '640699990', 'other'], ['136', '680510', '- On a base of woven textile fabric only'], ['', '680510000', '- On a base of woven textile fabric only'], ['137', '680800', 'Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and similar articles of vegetable fibre, of straw or of\nshavings, chips, particles, sawdust or other waste, of wood, agglomerated with\ncement, plaster or other mineral binders.'], ['', '680800200', 'panels, boards, blocks and similar articles of wood shavingsor of wood waste\n(including sawdust), chips, particles or other waste of wood, agglomerated with\ncement, plaster of other mineral binders'], ['138', '690790', '- Other'], ['', '690790100', 'floor, hearth and wall tiles'], ['', '690790900', 'other'], ['139', '691010', '- Of porcelain or china'], ['', '691010100', 'long bath'], ['140', '691090', '- Other'], ['', '691090100', 'long bath'], ['141', '691110', '- Tableware and kitchenware'], ['', '691110000', '- Tableware and kitchenware'], ['142', '691190', '- Other'], ['', '691190000', '- Other'], ['143', '691200', 'Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household articles and toilet articles, other\nthan of porcelain or china.'], ['', '691200000', 'Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household articles andtoilet articles, other\nthan of porcelain or china'], ['144', '700319', '- Other'], ['', '700319990', 'other'], ['145', '700330', '- Profiles']]
  700330100 in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four corners cut) 
[['', '700330900', 'other'], ['146', '700420', '- Glass, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having\nan absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', '700420990', 'other'], ['147', '700490', '- Other glass'], ['', '700490990', 'other'], ['148', '700510', '- Non-wired glass, having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', '700510910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['', '700510990', 'other'], ['149', '700529', '- Other'], ['', '700529910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['', '700529990', 'other'], ['150', '700711', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels'], ['', '700711000', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels'], ['151', '700719', '- Other'], ['', '700719000', '- Other'], ['152', '700721', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels'], ['', '700721000', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels'], ['153', '700729', '- Other'], ['', '700729000', '- Other'], ['154', '700991', '- Unframed'], ['', '700991000', '- Unframed'], ['155', '700992', '- Framed'], ['', '700992000', '- Framed'], ['156', '701940', '- Woven fabrics of rovings'], ['', '701940000', '- Woven fabrics of rovings'], ['157', '720918', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5mm'], ['', '720918100', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '720918910', 'of a thickness of 0.170mm or less'], ['', '720918990', 'Other'], ['158', '721011', '- Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more'], ['', '721011100', 'Containing by weight of 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['159', '721012', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['', '721012100', 'containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['160', '721030', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '721030100', 'Containing by weight of 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '721030910', 'Other: 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721030920', 'more than 1.5mm but less than 3mm in thickness'], ['', '721030990', 'Other'], ['161', '721049', '- Other'], ['', '721049100', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '721049910', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721049990', 'Other'], ['162', '721061', '- Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys']]
  721061110 containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon 
[['', '721061210', '1.5mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721061220', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['', '721061910', 'containing by weight of 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '721061921', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721061922', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['163', '721069', '- Other'], ['', '721069100', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '721069910', '1.5mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721069920', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['164', '721114', '- Other, of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more'], ['', '721114110', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon: universal plates'], ['', '721114121', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721114122', 'exceeding 25mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', '721114129', 'other'], ['', '721114190', 'other'], ['', '721114910', 'universal plates'], ['', '721114921', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721114922', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', '721114929', 'other'], ['', '721114930', 'coils for re-rolling'], ['', '721114940', 'bars and rods'], ['', '721114950', 'corrugated'], ['', '721114990', 'other'], ['165', '721123', '- Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon'], ['', '721123110', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721123120', 'exceeding 25mm but not more than 400mm in width'], ['', '721123190', 'other'], ['', '721123200', 'Bars and rods'], ['', '721123300', 'Corrugated'], ['', '721123910', 'of a thickness of 0.170mm or less'], ['', '721123990', 'other'], ['166', '721129', '- Other'], ['', '721129111', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721129112', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721129119', 'other'], ['', '721129120', 'bars and rods'], ['', '721129130', 'corrugated'], ['', '721129191', 'of a thickness of 0.170mm or less'], ['', '721129199', 'other'], ['', '721129211', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721129212', 'exceeding 25mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', '721129219', 'other'], ['', '721129290', 'other'], ['167', '721190', '- Other'], ['', '721190111', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721190112', 'exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width'], ['', '721190119', 'other'], ['', '721190190', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon: hoop and strip:other'], ['', '721190911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width']]
  721190912 exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width 
[['', '721190919', 'Other'], ['', '721190920', 'bars and rods'], ['', '721190930', 'corrugated'], ['', '721190991', 'of a thickness of 0.170 mm or less'], ['', '721190999', 'Other'], ['168', '721210', '- Plated or coated with tin'], ['', '721210110', 'universal plates'], ['', '721210121', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721210122', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721210129', 'other'], ['', '721210190', 'other'], ['', '721210911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721210912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721210919', 'Other'], ['169', '721220', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '721220110', 'universal plates'], ['', '721220121', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721220122', 'exceeding 25mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', '721220129', 'other'], ['', '721220190', 'other'], ['', '721220911', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721220912', 'exceeding 25mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', '721220919', 'other'], ['', '721220991', '1.5mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721220999', 'other'], ['170', '721230', '- Otherwise plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '721230110', 'universal plates'], ['', '721230121', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721230122', 'exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width'], ['', '721230129', 'other'], ['', '721230190', 'other'], ['', '721230911', 'not exceeding 25mm in width'], ['', '721230912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width'], ['', '721230919', 'other'], ['', '721230991', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721230999', 'other'], ['171', '721240', '- Painted, varnished or coated with plastics'], ['', '721240110', 'universal plates'], ['', '721240121', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721240122', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721240129', 'other'], ['', '721240190', 'other'], ['', '721240911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721240912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721240919', 'Other'], ['', '721240991', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721240992', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['172', '721250', '- Otherwise plated or coated'], ['', '721250110', 'universal plates']]
  721250121 not exceeding 25 mm in width 
[['', '721250122', 'exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width'], ['', '721250129', 'other'], ['', '721250190', 'other'], ['', '721250911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721250912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not more than 400 mm in width'], ['', '721250919', 'Other'], ['', '721250991', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721250992', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['173', '721260', '- Clad'], ['', '721260110', 'universal plates'], ['', '721260121', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721260122', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721260129', 'other'], ['', '721260190', 'other'], ['', '721260911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', '721260912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '721260919', 'Other'], ['', '721260991', '1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '721260992', 'more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['174', '721310', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations produced during the\nrolling process'], ['', '721310000', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations\nproduced during the rolling process'], ['175', '721320', '- Other, of free-cutting steel'], ['', '721320000', '- Of free-cutting steel'], ['176', '721399', '- Other'], ['', '721399000', '- Other'], ['177', '721491', '- Of rectangular (other than square) cross-section'], ['', '721491900', 'Other'], ['178', '721499', '- Other'], ['', '721499110', 'round'], ['', '721499910', 'round'], ['', '721499990', 'other'], ['179', '721510', '- Of free-cutting steel, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished'], ['', '721510100', 'round'], ['180', '721550', '- Other, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished'], ['', '721550910', 'round'], ['', '721550990', 'other'], ['181', '721590', '- Other'], ['', '721590100', 'round'], ['', '721590900', 'other'], ['182', '721632', '- I sections'], ['', '721632900', 'Of a thickness of 5 mm or less'], ['183', '721633', '- H sections'], ['', '721633911', 'thickness of wed of 9 mm and above'], ['184', '721710', '- Not plated or coated, whether or not polished'], ['', '721710000', '- not plated or coated, whether or not polished'], ['185', '721720', '- Plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '721720000', '- Plated or coated with zinc'], ['186', '721730', '- Plated or coated with other base metals']]
  721730000 - Plated or coated with other base metals 
[['187', '721790', '- Other'], ['', '721790000', '- Other'], ['188', '722300', 'Wire of stainless steel.'], ['', '722300000', 'Wire of stainless stee'], ['189', '722920', '- Of silico-manganese steel'], ['', '722920100', 'of a cross-sectional dimension of less than 5.5 mm'], ['', '722920900', 'other'], ['190', '730120', '- Angles, shapes and sections'], ['', '730120000', '- Angles, shapes and sections'], ['191', '730410', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines'], ['', '730410000', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines'], ['192', '730421', '- Drill pipe'], ['', '730421000', '- Drill pipe'], ['193', '730429', '- Other'], ['', '730429000', '- Other'], ['194', '730431', '- Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)'], ['', '730431900', 'other'], ['195', '730439', '- Other'], ['', '730439900', 'other'], ['196', '730441', '- Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)'], ['', '730441100', 'high pressure hydro-electric conduits'], ['', '730441900', 'other'], ['197', '730449', '- Other'], ['', '730449100', 'high pressure hydro-electric conduits'], ['', '730449900', 'other'], ['198', '730451', '- Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)'], ['', '730451100', 'high pressure hydro-electric conduits'], ['199', '730459', '- Other'], ['', '730459100', 'high pressure hydro-electric conduits'], ['200', '730490', '- Other'], ['', '730490100', 'high pressure hydro-electric conduits'], ['', '730490900', 'other'], ['201', '730511', '- Longitudinally submerged arc welded'], ['', '730511000', '- Longitudinally submerged arc welded'], ['202', '730520', '- Casing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas'], ['', '730520000', '- Casing of a kind used in drilling for oil gas'], ['203', '730610', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines'], ['', '730610000', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines'], ['204', '730620', '- Casing and tubing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas'], ['', '730620000', '- Casing and tubing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas'], ['205', '730630', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel'], ['', '730630000', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel'], ['206', '730640', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of stainless steel'], ['', '730640000', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of stainless steel'], ['207', '730650', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of other alloy steel'], ['', '730650000', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of other alloy steel'], ['208', '730660', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section'], ['', '730660000', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section'], ['209', '730690', '- Other']]
  730690000 - Other 
[['210', '730792', '- Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves'], ['', '730792100', 'of less than 15 cm in internal diameter'], ['211', '730793', '- Butt welding fittings'], ['', '730793100', 'of less than 15 cm in internal diameter'], ['212', '730840', '- Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering, propping or pit-propping'], ['', '730840100', 'of corrugated sheets, plates, hoop and strip, whether or notplated, coated or clad of\na thickness of 1.5 mm or more but not exceeding 4.5 mm'], ['', '730840900', 'other'], ['213', '730890', '- Other'], ['', '730890100', 'of corrugated sheets, plates, hoop and strip, whether or notplated, coated or clad of\na thickness of 1.5 mm or more but not exceeding 4.5 mm'], ['', '730890910', 'guardrails'], ['', '730890990', 'other'], ['214', '730900', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of iron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 l,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical or thermal\nequipment.'], ['', '730900110', 'of tinplates'], ['215', '731290', '- Other'], ['', '731290000', '- Other'], ['216', '731420', '- Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the intersection, of wire with a maximum\ncross-sectional dimension of 3 mm or more and having a mesh size of l00cm2 or\nmore'], ['', '731420000', '- Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the intersection, of wire with a maximum\ncross-sectional dimension of 3mm or more and having a mesh size of 100cm2 or\nmore'], ['217', '731700', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails, staples (other than those of heading\n83.05) and similar articles, of iron or steel, whether or not with heads of other\nmaterial, but excluding such articles with heads of copper.'], ['', '731700100', 'wire nails and staples'], ['218', '731815', '- Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers'], ['', '731815000', '- Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers'], ['219', '731816', '- Nuts'], ['', '731816000', '- Nuts'], ['230', '740811', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6 mm'], ['', '740811000', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6 mm'], ['231', '741999', '- Other'], ['', '741999100', 'cigarette cases or boxes and similar articles'], ['232', '760692', '- Of aluminium alloys'], ['', '760692000', '- Of aluminium alloys'], ['233', '760820', '- Of aluminium alloys'], ['', '760820000', '- Of aluminium alloys'], ['234', '821510', '- Sets of assorted articles containing at least one articles plated with precious metal'], ['', '821510100', 'plated with precious metal of iron or steel'], ['', '821510210', 'enamelled'], ['', '821510290', 'other'], ['', '821510900', 'other'], ['235', '821520', '- Other sets of assorted articles'], ['', '821520110', 'enamelled'], ['', '821520190', 'other'], ['', '821520900', 'Other'], ['236', '821591', '- Plated with precious metal']]
  821591100 handles 
[['', '821591900', 'other'], ['237', '830230', '- Other mountings, fittings and similar articles suitable for motor vehicles'], ['', '830230900', 'other'], ['238', '831110', '- Coated electrodes of base metal, for electric arc-welding'], ['', '831110000', '- Coated electrodes of base metal, for electric arc-welding'], ['239', '841460', '- Hoods having a maximum horizontal side not exceeding 120 cm'], ['', '841460990', 'other'], ['240', '841480', '- Other'], ['', '841480520', 'Compressors other than those of subheadings Nos. 8414.30 and8414.40:'], ['', '', 'compressors for automotive air-conditioners'], ['241', '841490', '- Parts'], ['', '841490110', 'blades for ceiling fans'], ['', '841490120', 'of subheading Nos. 8414.51 190, 8414.51 990, 8414.59 190 and8414.59 990'], ['', '841490190', 'other'], ['', '841490300', 'For subheading No. 8414.80 200'], ['242', '841582', '- Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit'], ['', '841582300', 'for use in road vehicles'], ['', '841582900', 'other'], ['243', '841583', '- Not incorporating a refrigerating unit'], ['', '841583300', 'for use in road vehicles'], ['', '841583900', 'other'], ['244', '841590', '- Parts'], ['', '841590900', 'other'], ['245', '841810', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors'], ['', '841810110', 'not over 350 litres'], ['', '841810120', 'over 350 litres'], ['', '841810900', 'Other'], ['246', '841821', '- Compression-type'], ['', '841821110', 'not over 350 litres'], ['', '841821120', 'over 350 litres'], ['', '841821910', 'not over 350 litres'], ['', '841821990', 'over 350 litres'], ['247', '841869', '- Other'], ['', '841869100', 'domestic'], ['', '841869900', 'other'], ['248', '841891', '- Furniture designed to receive refrigerating or freezing equipment'], ['', '841891000', '- Furniture designed to receive refrigerating or freezing equipment'], ['249', '841899', '- Other'], ['', '841899111', 'evaporators for automative air-conditioners'], ['', '841899112', 'condensers for automative air-containers'], ['', '841899119', 'other'], ['', '841899190', 'other'], ['', '841899210', 'evaporators and condensers'], ['', '841899290', 'other'], ['250', '842611', '- Overhead travelling cranes on fixed support'], ['', '842611000', '- Overhead travelling cranes on fixed support'], ['251', '842619', '- Other'], ['', '842619100', 'bridge cranes'], ['', '842619200', 'other gantry cranes']]
 252 842911 - Track laying 
[['', '842911000', '- Track laying'], ['253', '842919', '- Other'], ['', '842919000', '- Other'], ['254', '842920', '- Graders and levellers'], ['', '842920000', '- Graders and levellers'], ['255', '842940', '- Tamping machines and road rollers'], ['', '842940110', 'vibratory'], ['256', '843010', '- Pile-drivers and pile-extractors'], ['', '843010000', '- Pile-drivers and pile extractors'], ['257', '843031', '- Self-propelled'], ['', '843031000', '- Self-propelled'], ['258', '843039', '- Other'], ['', '843039000', '- Other'], ['259', '843049', '- Other'], ['', '843049110', '- wellhead module'], ['', '843049120', '- intergrated production module'], ['260', '843050', '- Other machinery, self-propelled'], ['', '843050000', '- Other machinery, self-propelled'], ['261', '843069', '- Other'], ['', '843069000', '- Other'], ['', '843210', '- Ploughs'], ['', '843210000', '- Ploughs'], ['262', '843311', '- Powered, with the cutting device rotating in a horizontal plane'], ['', '843311000', '- Powered, with the cutting device rotating in a horizontal plane'], ['263', '843319', '- Other'], ['', '843319000', '- Other'], ['264', '843390', '- Parts'], ['', '843390120', 'of a diameter (including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but not more than 250 mm\nprovided the width of the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more than 30 mm'], ['265', '845190', '- Parts'], ['', '845190100', 'of subheadings Nos. 8451.21 100 and 8451.29 100'], ['266', '850710', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines'], ['', '850710911', 'of a height (excluding terminals and handles) not more than 13 cm'], ['', '850710912', 'of a height (excluding terminals and handles) over 13 cm but not more than 23\ncm'], ['267', '850720', '- Other lead-acid accumulators'], ['', '850720911', 'of a height (excluding terminals and handles) not more than 13 cm'], ['', '850720912', 'of a height (excluding terminals and handles) over 13 cm butnot more than 23 cm'], ['268', '850910', '- Vacuum cleaners, including dry and wet vacuum cleaners'], ['', '850910000', '- Vacuum cleaners, including dry and wet vacuum cleaners'], ['269', '850920', '- Floor polishers'], ['', '850920000', '- Floor polishes'], ['270', '850930', '- Kitchen waste disposers'], ['', '850930000', '- Kitchen waste disposers'], ['271', '850940', '- Food grinders or mixers; fruit or vegetable juice extractors'], ['', '850940000', '- Food grinders or mixers; fruit or vegetable juice extractors'], ['272', '850980', '- Other appliances'], ['', '850980000', '- Other appliances'], ['273', '850990', '- Parts'], ['', '850990000', '- Parts']]
 274 851631 - Hair dryers 
[['', '851631000', '- Hair dryers'], ['275', '851632', '- Other hair-dressing apparatus'], ['', '851632000', '- Other hair-dressing apparatus'], ['276', '851633', '- Hand-drying apparatus'], ['', '851633000', '- Hand-drying apparatus'], ['277', '851640', '- Electric smoothing irons'], ['', '851640000', '- Electric smoothing irons'], ['278', '851650', '- Microwave ovens'], ['', '851650000', '- Microwave ovens'], ['279', '851660', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters'], ['', '851660200', 'Electric kettles'], ['', '851660300', 'Rice Cookers'], ['', '851660400', 'Other ovens'], ['', '851660900', 'Other'], ['280', '851671', '- Coffee or tea makers'], ['', '851671000', '- Coffee or tea makers'], ['281', '851672', '- Toasters'], ['', '851672000', '- Toasters'], ['282', '851679', '- Other'], ['', '851679000', '- Other'], ['283', '852499', '- Other'], ['', '852499900', 'Other'], ['284', '852812', '- Colour'], ['', '852812111', 'with screen of 41.6 cm and below'], ['', '852812119', 'other'], ['', '852812900', 'Other'], ['285', '852813', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['', '852813900', 'Other'], ['286', '852821', '- Colour'], ['', '852821000', '- Colour'], ['287', '852822', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['', '852822000', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['288', '852990', '- Other'], ['', '852990100', 'for television'], ['289', '853630', '- Other apparatus for protecting electrical circuits'], ['', '853630900', 'other'], ['270', '853650', '- Other switches'], ['', '853650100', 'Staarters for electric motors'], ['', '853650210', 'not exceeding 30 amps'], ['', '853650220', 'other'], ['271', '853929', '- Other'], ['', '853929000', '- Other'], ['272', '853939', '- Other'], ['', '853939000', '- Other'], ['273', '854420', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors'], ['', '854420100', 'natural or synthetic rubber isulated'], ['', '854420200', 'plastics insulated'], ['274', '854441', '- Fitted with connectors'], ['', '854441210', 'natural or synthetic rubber insulated']]
  854441220 plastics insulated 
[['', '854441910', 'natural or synthetic rubber insulated'], ['', '854441920', 'plastics insulated'], ['275', '854449', '- Other'], ['', '854449220', 'plastics insulated'], ['276', '854451', '- Fitted with connectors'], ['', '854451220', 'plastics insulated'], ['', '854451920', 'plastics insulated'], ['277', '854459', '- Other'], ['', '854459220', 'plastics insulated'], ['278', '854460', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage exceeding 1,000V'], ['', '854460120', 'plastics insulated'], ['279', '854810', '- Waste and scrap of primary cells, primary batteries and electric accumulators;\nspent primary cells, spent primary batteries and spent electric accumulators'], ['', '854810220', '6 volts and 12 volts electric accumulators of a height (excluding terminals and\nhandles) not more than 23 cm'], ['280', '870120', '- Road tractors for semi-trailers'], ['', '870120210', 'new'], ['', '870120220', 'old'], ['281', '870190', '- Other'], ['', '870190200', 'tractors (power unit designed for hauling roller (drum module)'], ['282', '870210', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel)'], ['', '870210110', 'completely knocked down'], ['', '870210121', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '870210122', 'completely built-up: old'], ['', '870210910', 'completely knocked down'], ['', '870210990', 'completely built-up'], ['283', '870290', '- Other'], ['', '870290110', 'completely knocked down'], ['', '870290121', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '870290122', 'completely built-up: old'], ['', '870290910', 'completely knocked down'], ['', '870290990', 'completely built-up'], ['284', '870322', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc'], ['', '870322310', 'completely knocked down'], ['285', '870323', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', '870323223', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '870323224', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '870323312', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '870323323', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '870323324', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', '870323911', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '870323923', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '870332223', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', '870332933', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['286', '870333', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500cc'], ['', '870333221', 'of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '870333921', 'of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['287', '870390', '- Other'], ['', '870390225', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above']]
 288 870410 - Dumpers designed for off-highway use 
[['', '870410211', 'new'], ['', '870410219', 'old g.v.w. exceeding 38 tonnes:'], ['', '870410311', 'new'], ['', '870410319', 'old'], ['289', '870421', '- Gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5t'], ['', '870421210', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '870421220', 'old'], ['290', '870422', '- g.v.w exceeding 5t but not exceeding 20t'], ['', '870422210', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '870422220', 'old'], ['291', '870423', '- g.v.w exceeding 20t'], ['', '870423210', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '870423220', 'old'], ['292', '870431', '- g.w.w not exceeding 5t'], ['', '870431210', 'new'], ['', '870431220', 'old'], ['293', '870432', '- g.v.w. exceeding 5t'], ['', '870432210', 'new'], ['', '870432220', 'old'], ['294', '870490', '- Other'], ['', '870490210', 'new'], ['', '870490220', 'old'], ['295', '870510', '- Crane lorries'], ['', '870510000', '- Crane lorries'], ['296', '870520', 'Mobile drilling derricks'], ['', '870520000', '- Mobile drilling derricks'], ['295', '870530', '- Fire fighting vehicles'], ['', '870530000', '- Fire fighting vehicles'], ['298', '870540', '- Concrete-mixer lorries'], ['', '870540000', '- Concrete-mixer lorries'], ['299', '870590', '- Other'], ['', '870590000', '- Other'], ['300', '870600', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.'], ['', '870600200', 'For motor vehicles falling within subheading Nos. 8703.21 321, 8703.21 322,\n8703.22 321, 8703.22 322, 8703.23 321, 8703.23 322, 8703.23 323, 8703.23 324,\n8703.23 331, 8703.24 332, 8703.23 333, 8703.'], ['', '870600300', 'for motor vehicles falling within subheadings Nos. 8702.10 121, 8402.10 122,\n8702.10 900, 8702.90 121, 8709.90 122 and 8702.90 900'], ['', '870600500', 'for motor vehicles falling within heading No. 87.05'], ['', '870600900', 'other'], ['301', '870710', '- For the vehicles of 87.03'], ['', '870710200', 'For motor vehicles falling within subheading Nos. 8703.21 921, 8703.21 922,\n8703.22 921, 8703.22 922, 8703.23 921, 8703.23 922, 8703.23 923, 8703.23\n924, 8703.23 931, 8703.23 932, 8703.23 933, 8703.'], ['', '870710300', 'For motor vehicles falling within subheading Nos. 8703.21 221, 8703.21 222,\n8703.21 321, 8703.21 322, 8703.21 400, 8703.22 221, 8703.22 222, 8703.22 321,\n8703.22 322, 8703.22 400, 8703.23 221, 8703.23 222, 8703.23 223, 8703.'], ['', '870710900', 'other'], ['302', '870790', '- Other'], ['', '870790200', 'for motor vehicles falling within headings Nos. 8702.10 121,8702.10 122, 8702.10\n900, 8702.90 121, 8702.90 122 and 8702.90 900']]
  870790300 for motor vehicles falling within heading No. 87.04 
[['', '870790900', 'other'], ['303', '870810', '- Bumpers and parts thereof'], ['', '870810900', 'other'], ['304', '870821', '- Safety seat belts'], ['', '870821000', '- Safety seat belts'], ['305', '870829', '- Other'], ['', '870829900', 'other'], ['306', '870831', '- Mounted brake linings'], ['', '870831900', 'other'], ['307', '870839', '- Other'], ['', '870839900', 'other'], ['308', '870840', '- Gear boxes'], ['', '870840900', 'other'], ['309', '870850', '- Drive-axles with differential, whether or not provided with other transmission\ncomponents'], ['', '870850900', 'other'], ['310', '870860', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof'], ['', '870860900', 'other'], ['311', '870870', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof'], ['', '870870110', 'fitted with tyres'], ['', '870870910', 'fitted with tyres'], ['', '870870990', 'other'], ['312', '870880', '- Suspension shock-absorbers'], ['', '870880900', 'other'], ['313', '870891', '- Radiators'], ['', '870891900', 'other'], ['314', '870892', '- Silencers and exhaust pipes'], ['', '870892900', 'other'], ['315', '870893', '- Clutches and parts thereof'], ['', '870893900', 'other'], ['316', '870894', '- Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes'], ['', '870894900', 'other'], ['317', '870899', '- Other'], ['', '870899160', 'for subheading 8703.21 310, 8703.22 310, 8703.23 311, 8703.23 312, 8703.23\n313, 8703.24 310, 8703.31 310, 8703.32 311,8703.32 312, 8703.33 311, 8703.33\n312, 8703.90 321, 8703.90 322, 8703.90 323 and 8703.90 324'], ['', '870899910', 'spokes and nipples'], ['', '870899920', 'parts and radiotors'], ['', '870899930', 'crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '870899990', 'other'], ['318', '871110', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 50cc'], ['', '871110100', 'auto-cycles (equipped with both a built-in engine and a pedal system)'], ['', '871110921', 'completely built-up: new'], ['', '871110929', 'other'], ['319', '871120', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 50cc but not exceeding 250cc'], ['', '871120100', 'auto-cycles (equipped with both a built-in engine and a pedal system)'], ['', '871120913', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '871120921', 'not exceeding 150 cc']]
  871120922 exceeding 150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc 
[['', '871120923', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '871120991', 'not exceeding 150 cc'], ['', '871120992', 'exceeding 150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc'], ['', '871120993', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['320', '871190', '- Other'], ['', '871190100', 'side-cars'], ['', '871190200', 'auto-cycles (equipped with both a built-in engine and a pedal system)'], ['', '871190390', 'completely built-up'], ['', '871190913', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '871190914', 'exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['', '871190922', 'not exceeding 150 cc'], ['', '871190923', 'exceeding 150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc'], ['', '871190924', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '871190925', 'exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['', '871190991', 'exceeding 150 cc'], ['', '871190992', 'exceeding 150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc'], ['', '871190993', 'exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '871190994', 'exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['321', '871200', 'Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery tricycles), not motorised.'], ['', '871200100', "bicycles (including children's bicycles in the normal form of adult bicycles),\nexcluding racing bicycles"], ['322', '871411', '- Saddles'], ['', '871411000', '- Saddles'], ['323', '871420', '- Of carriages for disabled persons'], ['', '871420120', 'of a diameter (including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but not more than 250 mm\nprovided the width of the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more than 30 mm'], ['', '871420200', 'Spokes'], ['', '871420300', 'Nipples'], ['324', '871491', '- Frames and forks, and parts thereof'], ['', '871491910', 'frames'], ['', '871491920', 'forks'], ['', '871491981', 'of frames'], ['325', '871492', '- Wheel rims and spokes'], ['', '871492910', 'wheel rims'], ['', '871492920', 'spokes'], ['326', '871495', '- Saddles'], ['', '871495900', 'other'], ['327', '871499', '- Other'], ['', '871499910', 'handle bars (with or without brake fittings)'], ['', '871499920', 'seat pillars'], ['', '871499921', 'lamp brackets'], ['', '871499922', 'bracket lugs'], ['', '871499930', 'mudguards'], ['', '871499950', 'reflectors'], ['', '871499960', 'carriers'], ['', '871499970', 'nipples'], ['', '871499971', 'spokes'], ['', '871499972', 'control cables'], ['', '871499990', 'other accessories'], ['328', '871610', '- Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan type, for housing or camping']]
  871610000 - Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan type, for housing or camping 
[['329', '871620', '- Self-loading or self-unloading trailers and semi-trailers for agricultural purposes'], ['', '871620000', 'Self-loading or self-unloading trailers and semi-trailers for agricultural purposes'], ['330', '871631', '- Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers'], ['', '871631000', '- Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers'], ['331', '871639', '- Other'], ['', '871639000', '- Other'], ['332', '871680', '- Other vehicles'], ['', '871680100', 'wheel barrows'], ['333', '871690', '- Parts'], ['', '871690111', 'For wheel barrows: castors, other than those of heading No. 8302.20: of a diameter\n(including tyres) exceeding 75 mm but not more than 100 mm provided the width\nof the wheel or tyre fitted theret'], ['', '871690112', 'of a diameter (including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but not more than 250 mm\nprovided the width of the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more than 30 mm'], ['', '871690119', 'other'], ['', '871690190', 'other'], ['', '871690911', 'of a diameter (including tyres) excluding 75 mm but not more than 100 mm\nprovided the width of the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more than 30 mm'], ['', '871690912', 'of a diameter (including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but not more than 250 mm\nprovided the width of the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more than 30 mm'], ['', '871690919', 'other'], ['', '871690920', 'spokes'], ['', '871690930', 'nipples'], ['', '871690940', 'wheels for trailer and semi-trailers'], ['334', '910690', '- Other'], ['', '910690900', 'other'], ['335', '940120', '- Seats of a kind used for motor vehicles'], ['', '940120000', '- Seats of a kind used for motor vehicles'], ['336', '940490', '- Other'], ['', '940490000', '- Other'], ['337', '961310', '- Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, non-refillable'], ['', '961310100', 'of plastics'], ['338', '961320', '- Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, refillable'], ['', '961320100', 'of plastics'], ['339', '961380', '- Other lighters'], ['', '961380110', 'of plastics']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Myanmar:   
[['No', 'HS.CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '010611', '- Primates -…….'], ['2', '010612', '- Whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the order Cetacea); …..'], ['3', '010619', '- Other ---- -'], ['4', '010620', '- Reptiles (including snakes and turtles) ---'], ['5', '010631', '- Birds of prey ----'], ['6', '010632', '- Psittaciformes (including parrots, parakeets, macaws and cockatoos) -'], ['7', '010639', '- Other ---- -'], ['8', '010690', '- Other:'], ['9', '050710', '- Ivory; ivory powder and waste:'], ['10', '060410', '- Mosses and lichens -- -- -'], ['11', '090111', '- Not decaffeinated:'], ['12', '090112', '- Decaffeinated:'], ['13', '110812', '- Maize (corn) starch ----'], ['14', '110814', '- Manioc (cassava) starch ----'], ['15', '130110', '- Lac -----'], ['16', '130120', '- Gum Arabic ---- -'], ['17', '130190', '- Other:'], ['18', '130231', '- Agar-agar ---- -'], ['19', '140410', '- Raw vegetable materials of a kind used primarily in dyeing or tanning:'], ['20', '150710', '- Crude oil, whether or not degummed --- -'], ['21', '150810', '- Crude oil ---- -'], ['22', '150890', '- Other:'], ['23', '151530', '- Castor oil and its fractions:'], ['24', '151550', '- Sesame oil and its fractions:'], ['25', '151590', '- Other:'], ['26', '152190', 'Other'], ['27', '170111', '- Cane sugar ---- -'], ['28', '170112', '- Beet sugar ---- -'], ['29', '220720', '- Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength:'], ['30', '230690', '- Other:'], ['31', '271019', '- Other:'], ['32', '2713.12', '- Calcined --------'], ['33', '280800', 'Nitric acid; sulphonitric acids --- -'], ['34', '283711', '- Of sodium ----'], ['35', '2903.23', '- Tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene) ----- -'], ['36', '291090', '- Other ---------'], ['37', '291712', '- Adipic acid, its salts and esters:'], ['38', '291732', '- Dioctyl orthophthalates --- -'], ['39', '292241', '- Lysine and its esters; salts thereof'], ['40', '292910', '- Isocyanates ---- -'], ['41', '300210', '- Antisera and other blood fractions and ….'], ['42', '320820', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers:'], ['43', '321210', '- Stamping foils -'], ['44', '321290', '- Other:'], ['45', '321310', '- Colours in sets ----'], ['46', '330610', '- Dentifrices:'], ['47', '330620', '- Yarn used to clean between the teeth (dental floss) -'], ['48', '330690', '- Other ---- -'], ['49', '340290', '- Other:'], ['50', '3901.10', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity ……'], ['51', '390210', '- Polypropylene:'], ['52', '390290', '- Other:'], ['53', '390410', '- Poly (vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other substances:'], ['54', '3907.99', '- Other than unsaturated:'], ['55', '3911.10', '- Petroleum resins, coumarone, indene or ….'], ['56', '3912.90', '- Other:'], ['57', '391731', '- Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum burst pressure of 27.6 MPa:'], ['58', '391733', '- Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials, with fittings'], ['59', '3920.20', '- Of polymers of propylene:'], ['60', '3920.94', '- Of phenolic resins:'], ['61', '392111', '- Plates and sheets ----'], ['62', '392190', '- Other:'], ['63', '400220', '- Butadiene rubber (BR) ----'], ['64', '4002.59', '- Other ----'], ['65', '4013.90', '- Other:'], ['66', '4107.19', '- Other ----'], ['67', '4114.20', '- Patent leather and patent laminated leather;'], ['68', '4202.32', '- With outer surface of plastic sheeting or of textile materials -'], ['69', '440110', '- Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or in similar forms - -'], ['70', '440200', 'Wood charcoal (including shell and nut charcoal), whether or not agglomerated --'], ['71', '440310', '- Treated with paint, stains, creosote or other preservatives:'], ['72', '470200', 'Chemical wood pulp, dissolving grades.'], ['73', '480591', '- Weighing 150 g/m2 or less:'], ['74', '481013', '- In rolls:'], ['75', '481014', '- In sheets with one side not exceeding 435 mm and the other side not …..'], ['76', '481019', '- Other:'], ['77', '481029', '- Other:'], ['78', '481160', '- Paper and paperboard, coated, impregnated or covered with wax, paraffin\nwax, stearin, oil'], ['79', '490890', '- Other ----'], ['80', '500100', 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling ---'], ['81', '500200', 'Raw silk (not thrown) ----'], ['82', '500310', '- Not carded or combed ----'], ['83', '500390', '- Other ---- -'], ['84', '520100', 'Cotton, not carded or combed --- -'], ['85', '520210', '- Yarn waste (including thread waste) --- -'], ['86', '520291', '- Garnetted stock ----'], ['87', '520299', '- Other ---- -'], ['88', '520300', 'Cotton, carded or combed ----'], ['89', '520919', '- Other fabrics -'], ['90', '531100', 'Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile fibres; woven fabrics-'], ['91', '540210', '- High tenacity yarn of nylon or other polyamides ---'], ['92', '540231', '- Of nylon or other polyamides, measuring per single yarn not more than -'], ['93', '540241', '- Of nylon or other polyamides ---'], ['94', '540741', '- Unbleached or bleached:'], ['95', '540769', '- Other ----'], ['96', '550320', '- Of polyesters ---'], ['97', '550810', '- Of synthetic staple fibres ---'], ['98', '551090', '- Other yarn -----'], ['99', '560312', '- Weighing more than 25 g/m2 but not more than 70 g/m2:'], ['100', '600390', '- Other --'], ['101', '610990', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['102', '630590', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['103', '640699', '- Of other materials:'], ['104', '650700', 'Head-bands, linings, covers, hat foundations'], ['105', '680710', '- In rolls:'], ['106', '720918', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm:'], ['107', '720926', '- Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm --'], ['108', '720928', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm --- -'], ['109', '721399', '- Other:'], ['110', '721730', '- Plated or coated with other base metals:'], ['111', '722090', '- Other:'], ['112', '722211', '- Of circular cross-section:'], ['113', '722300', 'Wire of stainless steel.'], ['114', '730210', '- Rails ---- -'], ['115', '730690', '- Other:'], ['116', '731210', '- Stranded wire, ropes and cables:'], ['117', '731290', '- Other ---- -'], ['118', '731700', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails, staples (other than those of heading 83.05) and\nsimilar articles, of iron or steel, whether or not with heads of other material, but excluding\nsuch articles with heads of copper.'], ['119', '740200', 'Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic refining.'], ['120', '740311', '- Cathodes and sections of cathodes --- -'], ['121', '740312', '- Wire-bars ---- -'], ['122', '740313', '- Billets ---- -'], ['123', '740319', '- Other ---- -'], ['124', '740321', '- Copper-zinc base alloys (brass) --- -'], ['125', '740322', '- Copper-tin base alloys (bronze) --- -'], ['126', '740323', '- Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys'], ['127', '740329', '- Other copper alloys (other than master alloys of heading 74.05) --'], ['128', '740400', 'Copper waste and scrap ----'], ['129', '740710', '- Of refined copper:'], ['130', '740721', '- Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass):'], ['131', '740829', '- Other --'], ['132', '790600', 'Zinc tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings (for example, couplings, elbows,\nsleeves) - -'], ['133', '800300', 'Tin bars, rods, profiles and wire.'], ['134', '840890', '- Other engines:'], ['135', '841350', '- Other reciprocating positive displacement pumps:'], ['136', '841810', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors:'], ['137', '8419.31', '- For agricultural products:'], ['138', '8420.99', '- Other:'], ['139', '8431.43', '- Parts of boring or sinking'], ['140', '845230', '- Sewing machine needles ----'], ['141', '845910', '- Way-type unit head machines:'], ['142', '846190', '- Other:'], ['143', '846249', '- Other:'], ['144', '846692', '- For machines of heading 84.65:'], ['145', '846711', '- Rotary type (including combined rotary-percussion):'], ['146', '847290', '- Other:'], ['147', '847480', '- Other machinery:'], ['148', '847710', '- Injection-moulding machines:'], ['149', '847810', '- Machinery:'], ['150', '850240', '- Electric rotary converters -------'], ['151', '850710', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines:'], ['152', '851671', '- Coffee or tea makers ---'], ['153', '851711', '- Line telephone sets with cordless handsets [ITA1/A-026]'], ['154', '851719', '- Other: [ITA1/A-027]'], ['155', '851721', '- Facsimile machines [ITA1/A-028] --'], ['156', '851722', '- Teleprinters [ITA1/A-029] ----'], ['157', '851730', '- Telephonic or telegraphic switching apparatus: [ITA1/A-030]'], ['158', '851750', '- Other apparatus, for carrier-current line systems or for digital line systems:'], ['159', '851780', '- Other apparatus: [ITA1/A-032] [ex repeaters [ITA1/B-192]'], ['160', '851790', '- Parts: [ITA1/A-033] [ex parts of repeaters ITA1/B-192] [ITA1/B-199]'], ['161', '852451', '- Of a width not exceeding 4 mm:'], ['162', '853661', '- Lamp-holders:'], ['163', '854411', '- Of copper:'], ['164', '854460', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage ….'], ['165', '870290', '- Other:'], ['166', '870410', '- Dumpers designed for off-highway use:'], ['167', '870421', '- g.v.w not exceeding 5 t:'], ['168', '870422', '- g.v.w exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 20 t:'], ['169', '870431', '- g.v.w not exceeding 5 t:'], ['170', '870432', '- g.v.w exceeding 5 t:'], ['171', '870490', '- Other:'], ['172', '870821', '- Safety seat belts:'], ['173', '870829', '- Other:'], ['174', '870831', '- Mounted brake linings:'], ['175', '870840', '- Gear boxes:'], ['176', '870870', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof:'], ['177', '901520', '- Theodolites and tacheometers (tacheometers) --'], ['178', '901580', '- Other instruments and appliances:'], ['179', '901820', '- Ultra-violet or infra-red ray apparatus --'], ['180', '902290', '- Other, including parts and accessories:'], ['181', '902480', '- Other machines and appliances:'], ['182', '920110', '- Upright pianos --- -'], ['183', '920190', '- Other ----- -'], ['184', '940600', '- Prefabricated buildings.'], ['185', '950720', '- Fish-hooks, whether or not snelled --'], ['186', '960610', '- Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and ….'], ['187', '960622', '- Of base metal, not covered with textile'], ['188', '960711', '- Fitted with chain scoops of base metal --- -'], ['189', '960719', '- Other ---- -'], ['190', '960831', '- Indian ink drawing pens --- -'], ['191', '960839', '- Other ----'], ['192', '960891', '- Pen nibs and nib points:'], ['193', '961519', '- Other:']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   The Philippines:   
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0105.99', 'Other live poultry, other than fowls of the species Gallus domesticus'], ['', '0105.99.20A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0105.99.20B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['2', '0207.24', 'Meat and edible offal, of turkeys, not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled'], ['3', '0207.25', 'Meat and edible offal, of turkeys, not cut in pieces, frozen'], ['', '0207.25.00A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0207.25.00B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['4', '0207.26', 'Meat and edible offal, of turkeys, cuts and offal, fresh or chilled'], ['5', '0207.27', 'Meat and edible offal, of turkeys, cuts and offal, frozen'], ['', '0207.27.10', '- Livers'], ['', '0207.27.10A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0207.27.10B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['', '0207.27.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0207.27.90A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0207.27.90B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['6', '0207.32', 'Meat and edible offal, of ducks, geese or guinea fowls, not cut in pieces, fresh or\nchilled'], ['', '0207.32 10', '- Of ducks'], ['', '0207.32.10A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0207.32.10B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['', '0207.32 20', '- Of geese or guinea fowl'], ['', '0207.32.20A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0207.32.20B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['7', '0207.33', 'Meat and edible offal, of ducks, geese or guinea fowls, not cut in pieces, frozen'], ['8', '0207.34', 'Fatty livers, of ducks, geese or guinea fowls, fresh or chilled'], ['9', '0207.35', 'Other meat and edible offal, of ducks, geese or guinea fowls, fresh or chilled'], ['10', '0207.36', 'Other meat and edible offal, of ducks, geese or guinea fowls, frozen'], ['11', '0303.74', 'Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber japonicus),\nfrozen'], ['12', '0305.63', 'Anchovies (Engraulis spp.), salted but not dried or smoked and in brine'], ['13', '0305.69', 'Other fish, salted but not dried or smoked and in brine'], ['14', '0703.90', 'Leeks and other alliaceous vegetables, fresh or chilled'], ['15', '0705.19', 'Other lettuce, fresh or chilled'], ['16', '0705.21', 'Witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus var. foliosum), fresh or chilled'], ['17', '0705.29', 'Other chicory, fresh or chilled'], ['18', '0706.10', 'Carrots and turnips, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0706.10.20', '- Turnips:'], ['19', '0706.90', 'Other edible roots, fresh or chilled'], ['20', '0707.00', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled'], ['21', '0708.10', 'Peas (Pisum sativum), fresh or chilled'], ['22', '0708.20', 'Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseoulus spp.), fresh or chilled'], ['23', '0708.90', 'Other leguminous vegetables, fresh or chilled'], ['24', '0709.40', 'Celery other than celeriac, fresh or chilled'], ['25', '0709.60', 'Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta, fresh or chilled'], ['26', '0709.70', 'Spinach, New Zealand Spinach and orache Spinach (garden Spinach), fresh or\nchilled'], ['27', '0711.40', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, provisionally preserved but unsuitable for immediate\nconsumption'], ['28', '0814.00', 'Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including watermelons), fresh, frozen, dried or\nprovisionally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative\nsolutions.'], ['29', '0901.11', 'Coffee, not roasted, not decaffeinated'], ['30', '0901.12', 'Coffee, not roasted, decaffeinated'], ['31', '0901.21', 'Coffee, roasted, not decaffeinated'], ['32', '0901.22', 'Cofee, roasted, decaffeinated'], ['33', '0901.90', 'Other coffee'], ['34', '0904.11', 'Pepper, neither crushed nor ground'], ['', '0904.11.20', '- Black'], ['35', '0904.20', 'Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta, dried or crushed or\nground'], ['36', '0910.10', 'Ginger'], ['37', '1006.10', 'Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['', '1006.10.10', '- Suitable for sowing'], ['38', '1101.00', 'Wheat or meslin flour'], ['', '1101.00.10', '- Wheat flour'], ['39', '1102.20', 'Maize (corn) flour'], ['40', '1103.13', 'Cereal groats, meal and pellets, of maize (corn)'], ['41', '1103.19', 'Cereal groats, meal and pellets, of other cereals'], ['', '1103.19.20', '- Of rice'], ['42', '1104.23', 'Cereal grains (for example , hulled, pearled, sliced or kibbled), of maize (corn)'], ['43', '1108.14', 'Manioc (cassava starch)'], ['44', '1207.10', 'Palm nuts and kernels'], ['45', '1511.10', 'Palm oil and its fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified,\ncrude'], ['46', '1511.90', 'Other palm oil and its fractions, whether or not refined, but not chemically\nmodified'], ['47', '1513.11', 'Coconut (copra) oil and its fractions, crude'], ['48', '1513.19', 'Other coconut (copra) oil and its fractions'], ['49', '1513.21', 'Palm kernel or babassu oil and fractions thereof, crude oil'], ['50', '1513.29', 'Other palm kernel or babassu oil and fractions thereof'], ['51', '1515.21', 'Maize (corn) oil and its fractions, crude oil'], ['52', '1515.29', 'Other maize (corn) oil and its fractions'], ['53', '1516.20', 'Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions:'], ['', '1516.20.12', '- Of palm oil, crude'], ['', '1516.20.21', '- In packings of 10 kg net weight or more'], ['', '1516.20.29', '- Other'], ['', '1516.20.30', '- Of coconut'], ['', '1516.20.41', '- Crude'], ['', '1516.20.42', '- Refined, bleached and deodorized (RBD)'], ['', '1516.20.51', '- Crude'], ['', '1516.20.52', '- Refined, bleached and deodorized (RBD)'], ['', '1516.20.81', '- Of palm kernel stearin, crude'], ['', '1516.20.82', '- of palm kernel stearin, refined, bleached and deodorized'], ['', '1516.20.83', '- Other hydrogenated refined, bleached and deodorized palm kernel olein or'], ['', '', 'stearin'], ['', '1516.20.84', '- Crude'], ['', '1516.20.85', '- Refined, bleached and deodorized'], ['', '1516.20.86', '- Other'], ['', '1516.20.99', '- Other'], ['54', '1517.10', 'Margarine, excluding liquid margarine'], ['55', '1517.90', 'Other margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or\noils or of fractions of different fats or oils of this Chapter, other than edible fats\nor oils or their fractions of heading No. 15.16.'], ['', '1517.90.10', '- Imitation ghee'], ['', '1517.90.20', '- Liquid margarine'], ['', '1517.90.30', '- Mould release preparation'], ['', '1517.90.41', '- Imitation lard of animal origin'], ['', '1517.90.42', '- Imitation lard of vegetable origin'], ['', '1517.90.43', '- Shortening'], ['', '1517.90.51', '- Solid mixtures or preparations'], ['', '1517.90.61', '- In which ground-nut oil predominates'], ['', '1517.90.71', '- Crude'], ['', '1517.90.72', '- Other, in packings of net weight not exceeding 20 kg'], ['', '1517.90.79', '- Other'], ['', '1517.90.81', '- In which crude palm kernel oil predominates'], ['', '1517.90.82', '- In which refined, bleached and deodorised (RBD) palm kernel oil predominates'], ['', '1517.90.83', '- In which crude palm kernel olein predominates'], ['', '1517.90.84', '- In which refined, bleached and deodorised (RBD) palm kernel olein\npredominates'], ['', '1517.90.85', '- In which soya bean oil or coconut oil predominates'], ['', '1517.90.89', '- Other'], ['', '1517.90.90', '- Other'], ['56', '1601.00', 'Sausages'], ['57', '1602.32', 'Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood, of fowls of the species\nGallus domesticus'], ['58', '1602.39', 'Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood, of fowls of the species\nGallus domesticus, nes'], ['59', '1602.41', 'Hams and cuts thereof, of swine'], ['60', '1602.42', 'Shoulders and cuts thereof, of swine'], ['61', '1602.49', 'Other, including mixtures, of swine'], ['62', '1602.50', 'Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or blood, of bovine animals:'], ['63', '1604.16', 'Anchovies, whole or in pieces, but not minced'], ['64', '1605.20', 'Shrimps and prawns, prepared or preserved'], ['', '1605.20.10', '- Shrimp paste'], ['65', '1704.90', 'Other sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not containing cocoa'], ['66', '1902.19', 'Other pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or\notherwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi,\nravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared, other than uncooked pasta\nnot stuffed or otherwise prepared'], ['67', '1905.10', 'Crispbread'], ['68', '2002.90', 'Other tomatoes, prepared or preserved otherwise by vinegar or acetic acid'], ['', '2002.90.10', '- Tomato paste'], ['69', '2006.00', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of plants, preserved by sugar\n(drained, glace or crystallised)'], ['70', '2101.11', 'Extracts, essences and concentrates of coffee'], ['', '2101.11.10', '- Instant coffee'], ['', '2101.11.10A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '2101.11.10B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['71', '2101.12', 'Preparations with a basis of extracts, essences or concentrates or with a basis of\ncoffee'], ['72', '2106.90', 'Other food preparations not elsewhere specified or included'], ['', '2106.90 30', '- Non-dairy creamer'], ['73', '2309.90', 'Other preparations of a kind used in animal feeding'], ['', '2309.90.11', '- For poultry'], ['', '2309.90.12', '- For swine'], ['', '2309.90.19', '- Other'], ['', '2309.90.19B', 'B. Other'], ['', '2309.90.30', '- Other containing meat'], ['', '2309.90.90', '- Other'], ['74', '2523.29', 'Other Portland cement'], ['', '2523.29.90', '- Other'], ['75', '2815.12', 'Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda), in aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['76', '2922.42', 'Glutamic acid and its salts:'], ['', '2922.42.10', '- Glutamic acid'], ['', '2922.42.20', '- Monosodium glutamate'], ['77', '3206.49', 'Other colouring matter and other preparations'], ['', '3206.49.10', '- Preparations of inorganic pigments'], ['78', '3401.11', 'Soap and organic surface-active products and preparations, for toilet use\n(including medicated products):'], ['79', '3401.20', 'Soap in other forms'], ['', '3401.20.20', '- Soap chips'], ['80', '3402.11', 'Organic surface-active agents, whether or not put up for retail sale, anionic'], ['', '3402.11.20', '- Wetting agents used in the manufacture of herbicide'], ['', '3402.11.90', '- Other'], ['', '3402.11.90A', 'A. Sulphonated alkylbenzene'], ['', '3402.11.90B', 'B. Other'], ['81', '3506.91', 'Adhesives based on polymers of headings 39.01 to 39.13 or on rubber'], ['82', '3823.70', 'Industrial fatty alcohols'], ['83', '3904.21', 'Other polyvinyl chloride, non-plasticised'], ['84', '3906.90', 'Other acrylic polymers in primary forms'], ['85', '3909.40', 'Phenolic resins'], ['', '3909.40.90', '- Other'], ['86', '3916.10', 'Monofilament of which any cross-sectional dimension exceeds 1 mm, rods,\nsticks and profile shapes, whether or not surface-worked but not otherwise\nworked of polymers of ethylene'], ['87', '3916.20', 'Monofilament of which any cross-sectional dimension exceeds 1 mm, rods,\nsticks and profile shapes, whether or not surface-worked but not otherwise\nworked, of polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['88', '3917.22', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of polymers of propylene'], ['89', '3917.23', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of polymers of vinyl chloride'], ['90', '3917.29', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid, of other plastics'], ['91', '3917.31', 'Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum burst pressure of 27.6 Mpa'], ['92', '3917.32', 'Other tubes, pipes and hoses, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other\nmaterials, without fittings'], ['', '3917.32.20', '- Porous tubes suitable for agricultural watering'], ['', '3917.32.90', '- Other'], ['93', '3917.39', 'Other Tubes, pipes and hoses, nes'], ['94', '3917.40', 'Fittings'], ['95', '3919.10', 'Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, foil, tape, strip and other flat shapes, of\nplastics, in rolls of a width not exceeding 20 cm'], ['96', '3920.51', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of poly(methyl methacrylate), non-\ncellular and not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with\nother materials'], ['97', '3920.59', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of acrylic polymers, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials, nes'], ['98', '3920.62', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of poly(ethylene terephthalate), non-\ncellular and not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with\nother materials'], ['99', '3920.63', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of unsaturated polyesters, non-cellular\nand not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other\nmaterials'], ['100', '3920.69', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of other polyesters, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['101', '3920.73', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of cellulose acetate, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['102', '3920.92', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polyamides, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['', '3920.92.10', '- Of nylon-6'], ['103', '3920.99', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of other plastics, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['', '3920.99.10', '- Corrugated sheets and plates'], ['', '3920.99.30', '- Used as an adhesive by melting'], ['', '3920.99.90', '- Other'], ['104', '3921.11', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of styrene, cellular'], ['105', '3921.12', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of vinyl chloride, cellular'], ['', '3921.12.19', '- Other'], ['', '3921.12.99', '- Other'], ['106', '3921.13', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polyurethanes, cellular'], ['107', '3921.14', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of regenerated cellulose, cellular'], ['108', '3921.19', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of other plastics, cellular'], ['', '3921.19.19', '- Other'], ['', '3921.19.99', '- Other'], ['109', '3923.10', 'Boxes, cases, crates and similar articles, of plastics'], ['110', '3923.40', 'Spools, cops, bobbins and similar supports, of plastics'], ['111', '3923.50', 'Stoppers, lids, caps and other closures, of plastics'], ['112', '3926.10', 'Office or school supplies, of plastics'], ['113', '3926.90', 'Other articles of plastics and articles of other materials of headings 39.01 to\n39.14, nes'], ['', '3926.90.49', '- Other'], ['', '3926.90.99', '- Other:'], ['', '3926.90.99B', 'B. Other'], ['114', '4008.21', 'Plates, sheets and strip, of non-cellular rubber'], ['115', '4009.31', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber, without\nfittings (for example, joints, elbows, flanges), reinforced or otherwise combined\nonly with textile materials'], ['', '4009.31 90', '- Other'], ['116', '4010.31', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm, of vulcanised\nrubber'], ['117', '4010.32', 'Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other than V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180 cm,\nof vulcanised rubber'], ['118', '4011.20', 'New pneumatic tyres, of rubber, of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['119', '4016.91', 'Floor coverings and mats, of vulcanised rubber other than hard rubber'], ['120', '4016.99', 'Parts and accessories for vehicles of Chapter 87, of vulcanised rubber other than\nhard rubber'], ['', '4016.99.11', '- For motor vehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03, 87.04, 87.05 and 87.11'], ['121', '4202.31', 'Articles of a kind normally carried in the pocket or in the handbag, with outer\nsurface of leather, of composition leather or of patent leather'], ['122', '4601.99', 'Other plaits and similar products of plaiting materials, whether or not assembled\ninto strips; plaiting materials, plaits and similar products of plaiting materials,\nbound together in parallel strands or woven, in sheet form, whether or not being\nfinished articles (for example, mats, matting, screens)'], ['', '4601.99.10', '- Mats and matting'], ['', '4601.99.90', '- Other'], ['123', '4819.10', 'Cartons, boxes and cases, of corrugated paper or paperboard'], ['124', '4821.10', 'Paper or paperboard labels of all kinds, printed'], ['', '4821.10.90', '- Other'], ['125', '5206.43', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread), containing less than 85% by weight of\ncotton, multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of combed fibres, measuring per single\nyarn less than 232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding 43\nmetric number but not exceeding 52 metric number per single yarn), not put up\nfor retail sale'], ['126', '5512.19', 'Other woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres, containing 85% or more by\nweight of polyester staple fibres'], ['127', '5603.11', 'Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated, of man-\nmade filaments, weighing not more than 25 g/m2'], ['128', '5603.12', 'Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated, of man-\nmade filaments, weighing more than 25 g/m2 but not more than 70 g/m2'], ['129', '5603.14', 'Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated, of man-\nmade filaments, weighing more than 150 g/m2'], ['130', '5603.91', 'Other nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated,\nweighing not more than 25 g/m2'], ['131', '5603.94', 'Other nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered or laminated,\nweighing more than 150 g/m2'], ['132', '5608.90', 'Knotted netting of twine, cordage or rope; made up fishing nets and other made\nup nets, of other textile materials'], ['133', '5807.10', 'Labels, badges and similar articles of textile materials, in the piece, in strips or\ncut to shape or size, not embroidered, woven'], ['134', '5903.10', 'Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with plastics, other\nthan those of heading 59.02, with poly(vinyl chloride)'], ['', '5903.10.10', '- Interlining'], ['135', '5903.20', 'Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with plastics, other\nthan those of heading 59.02, with polyurethane:'], ['136', '5903.90', 'Other textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or laminated with plastics,\nother than those of heading 59.02'], ['137', '5904.10', 'Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape'], ['138', '5904.90', 'Floor coverings consisting of a coating or covering applied on a textile backing,\nwhether or not cut to shape'], ['139', '6001.10', '"Long pile" fabrics, knitted or crocheted'], ['140', '6004.10', 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width exceeding 30 cm, containing by weight\n5% or more of elastomeric yarn but not containing rubber thread, other than those\nof heading 60.01'], ['', '6004.10.90', '- Other'], ['141', '6006.21', 'Other knitted or crocheted fabrics, of cotton, unbleached or bleached'], ['142', '6108.29', "Women's or girls' slips, petticoats, briefs, panties, nightdresses, pyjamas,\nnegliges, bathrobes, dressing gowns and similar articles, knitted or crocheted,\nbriefs and panties, of other textile materials:"], ['143', '6115.20', "Women's full-length or knee-length hosiery, measuring per single yarn less than\n67 decitex, knitted or crocheted"], ['144', '6117.20', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats, knitted or crocheted'], ['145', '6117.80', 'Other accessories, knitted or crocheted'], ['146', '6117.90', 'Parts of other made up clothing accessories, knitted or crocheted; knitted or\ncrocheted parts of garments or of clothing accessories'], ['147', '6217.10', 'Clothing accessories:'], ['148', '6302.59', 'Other table linen, of other textile materials'], ['149', '6302.60', 'Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of terry towelling or similar terry fabrics, of\ncotton'], ['150', '6302.91', 'Other toilet linen and kitchen linen, of cotton'], ['151', '6305.10', 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods, of jute or of other\ntextile bast fibres of heading 53.03'], ['152', '6305.39', 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods, of other man-made\ntextile materials'], ['153', '6305.90', 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods, of other textile\nmaterials'], ['154', '6306.12', 'Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds, of synthetic fibres'], ['155', '6306.99', 'Other tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds; tents; sails for boats, sailboards or\nlandcraft; camping goods, of other textile materials'], ['156', '6309.00', 'Worn clothing and other worn articles'], ['157', '6402.19', 'Other sports footwear with outer soles and uppers of rubber or of plastics'], ['158', '6403.20', 'Footwear with outer soles of leather, and uppers which consist of leather straps\nacross the instep and around the big toe'], ['159', '6601.99', 'Other umbrellas and sun umbrellas (including walking-stick umbrellas, garden\numbrellas and similar umbrellas), nes'], ['160', '6908.90', 'Other glazed ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles; glazed ceramic\nmosaic cubes and the like, whether or not on a backing.'], ['161', '7003.12', 'Cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or profiles, but not otherwise worked, non-\nwired sheets, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or\nhaving an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', '7003.12.20', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '7003.12.90', '- Other'], ['162', '7003.19', 'Other cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or profiles, whether or not having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked, non-\nwired sheets'], ['', '7003.19.20', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '7003.19.90', '- Other'], ['163', '7003.30', 'Cast glass and rolled glass, in profiles, whether or not having an absorbent,\nreflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked'], ['', '7003.30.90', '- Other'], ['164', '7005.10', 'Non-wired float glass, having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, in\nsheets, but not otherwise worked,'], ['', '7005.10.20', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '7005.10.90', '- Other'], ['165', '7005.21', 'Other non-wired float glass, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted),\nopacified, flashed or merely surface ground, in sheets, whether or not having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked'], ['', '7005.21.20', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '7005.21.90', '- Other'], ['166', '7005.29', 'Other non-wired float glass, nes, in sheets, whether or not having an absorbent,\nreflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked'], ['', '7005.29.20', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut) (cid:31)'], ['', '7005.29.90', '- Other'], ['167', '7006.00', 'Glass of heading 70.03, 70.04 or 70.05, bent, edge-worked, engraved, drilled,\nenamelled or otherwise worked, but not framed or fitted with other materials'], ['', '7006.00.90', '- Other'], ['168', '7009.10', 'Rear-view mirrors for vehicles'], ['169', '7009.91', 'Glass mirrors, unframed'], ['170', '7010.90', 'Other bottles, flasks, jars, pots, phials, and other containers, of glass, of a kind\nused for the conveyance or packing of goods; preserving jars of glass'], ['', '7010.90.90A', 'A. Of a capacity exceeding 1 l'], ['', '7010.90.90B', 'B. Other'], ['171', '7013.32', 'Glassware of a kind used for table (other than drinking glasses) or kitchen\npurposes other than of glass-ceramics, of glass having a linear coefficient of\nexpansion not exceeding 5x10-6 per Kelvin within a temperature range of 0 oC\nto 300 oC'], ['172', '7118.10', 'Coin (other than gold coin), not being legal tender'], ['173', '7208.10', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more, in\ncoils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['174', '7208.27', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more, in\ncoils, not further worked than hot-rolled, picked, of a thickness of less than 3\nmm, other than with patterns in relief'], ['175', '7208.37', '- Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 10 mm:'], ['176', '7208.38', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm:'], ['', '7208.38.10', '- Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7208.38.90', '- Other'], ['177', '7208.39', '- Of a thickness of less than 3 mm:'], ['', '7208.39.11', '- Steel plates and sheets containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7208.39.19', '- Other'], ['', '7208.39.90', '- Other'], ['178', '7208.40', '- Not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['179', '7208.51', '- Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm'], ['180', '7208.53', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['181', '7208.90', '- Other:'], ['', '7208.90.10', '- Of a thickness of 10 mm or more but not exceeding 125 mm; of a thickness of\nless than 3 mm and containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7208.90.20', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm and containing by\nweight less than 0.6% of carbon; of a thickness of less than 3 mm and containing\nby weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7208.90.30', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm and containing by\nweight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7208.90.90', '- Other'], ['182', '7209.16', '- Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['183', '7209.17', '- Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding 1 mm'], ['184', '7209.18', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm:'], ['', '7209.18.90', '- Other'], ['185', '7209.26', '- Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['186', '7209.28', '- Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['187', '7209.90', '- Other'], ['188', '7211.23', '- Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon:'], ['', '7211.23.10', '- Corrugated'], ['', '7211.23.20', '- Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 100 mm in width'], ['', '7211.23.30', '- Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '7211.23.40', '- Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', '7211.23.50', '- Other, of a thickness more than 40 mm'], ['', '7211.23.91', '- Of a thickness of 0.170 mm or less'], ['', '7211.23.99', '- Other'], ['189', '7210.49', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more,\notherwise plated or coated with zinc, nes'], ['190', '7210.61', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more,\nplated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys:'], ['191', '7210.69', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more,\nplated or coated with aluminium other than plated or coated with aluminium-zinc\nalloys'], ['192', '7210.70', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or more,\npainted, varnished or coated with plastics'], ['193', '7215.50', 'Other bars and rods of iron or non-alloy steel, not further worked than cold-\nformed or cold-finished, nes'], ['194', '7216.99', 'Other angles, shapes and sections of iron or non-alloy steel, nes'], ['195', '7217.10', 'Wire of iron or non-alloy steel, not plated or coated, whether or not polished'], ['196', '7217.30', 'Wire of iron or non-alloy steel, plated or coated with other base metals:'], ['', '7217.30.10', '- Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon'], ['', '7217.30.20', '- Containing by weight 0.25% or more of carbon but less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '7217.30.33', '- Plated or coated with tin'], ['', '7217.30.39', '- Other'], ['', '7217.30.90', '- Other'], ['197', '7217.90', 'Other wire of iron or non-alloy steel'], ['198', '7306.10', 'Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines, of iron or steel'], ['199', '7306.30', 'Other tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, nes, welded, of circular cross-section,\nof iron or non-alloy steel:'], ['', '7306.30.11', '- High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.30.15', '- Other, containing by weight less than 0.45% of carbon'], ['', '7306.30.19', '- Other'], ['', '7306.30.21', '- High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.30.24', '- Other, of external diameter less than 140 mm and containing by weight less\nthan 0.45% of carbon'], ['', '7306.30.25', '- Other, of external diameter 140 mm or more and containing by weight less than\n0.45% of carbon'], ['', '7306.30.26', '- Other, of external diameter less than 140 mm and containing by weight 0.45%\nor more of carbon'], ['', '7306.30.27', '- Other, of external diameter 140 mm or more and containing by weight 0.45%\nor more of carbon'], ['200', '7306.90', 'Other tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, nes, of iron or steel:'], ['', '7306.90.12', '- High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.90.19', '- Other'], ['', '7306.90.92', '- High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.90.93', '- Other, of external diameter measuring less than 140 mm and containing by\nweight less than 0.45% of carbon'], ['', '7306.90.94', '- Other, of external diameter measuring 140 mm or more and containing by\nweight less than 0.45% of carbon'], ['', '7306.90.99', '- Other'], ['201', '7307.19', 'Other cast fittings, of iron or steel'], ['202', '7307.92', 'Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves, of iron or steel'], ['203', '7309.00', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of iron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 l,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical or thermal\nequipment'], ['204', '7318.15', 'Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers, of iron and\nsteel'], ['205', '7318.22', 'Other washers, of iron or steel'], ['206', '7318.23', 'Rivets, of iron and steel'], ['207', '7320.20', 'Helical springs, of iron or steel'], ['208', '7321.12', 'Cooking appliances and plate warmers, for liquid fuel, of iron and steel'], ['209', '7321.13', 'Cooking appliances and plate warmers, for solid fuel, of iron and steel'], ['210', '7321.81', 'Other appliances, for gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels, of iron and steel'], ['211', '7321.82', 'Other appliances, for liquid fuel, of iron and steel'], ['212', '7321.83', 'Other appliances, for solid fuel, of iron and steel'], ['213', '7323.91', 'Table, kitchen or other household articles and parts thereof, of cast iron, not\nenameled:'], ['214', '7324.29', 'Other baths, of iron or steel'], ['215', '7326.90', 'Other articles of iron or steel, nes'], ['', '7326.90.90', '- Other'], ['216', '7413.00', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, of copper, not electrically\ninsulated'], ['', '7413.00.90', '- Other'], ['217', '7607.20', 'Aluminium foil, backed with paper, paperboard, plastics or similar backing\nmaterials, of a thickness (excluding any backing) not exceeding 0.2 mm'], ['', '7607.20.90', '- Other'], ['218', '8306.21', 'Statuettes and other ornaments, plated with precious metal'], ['219', '8414.59', 'Other fans'], ['220', '8415.10', 'Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system:, air conditioning\nmachines'], ['221', '8415.20', 'Air conditioning machines, comprising a motor-driven fan and elements for\nchanging the temperature and humidity, including those machines in which the\nhumidity cannot be separately regulated, of a kind used for persons, in motor\nvehicles'], ['222', '8418.21', 'Refrigerators, household type, compression-type'], ['223', '8450.11', 'Fully-automatic machines, each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg:'], ['224', '8450.12', 'Other machines, with built-in centrifugal drier, each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 10 kg'], ['225', '8504.31', 'Other transformers, having a power handling capacity not exceeding 1 kVA'], ['', '8504.31.50', '- Step up/down transformers, slide regulators, stabilisers'], ['', '8504.31.90', '- Other'], ['226', '8511.50', 'Other generators'], ['', '8511.50.30', '- Other alternator for vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['', '8511.50.90', '- Other'], ['227', '8702.10', 'Motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more persons, including the driver,\nwith compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel)'], ['228', '8702.90', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more persons, including the\ndriver'], ['229', '8703.21', 'Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine, of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['', '8703.21.31', '- CKD'], ['', '8703.21.32', '- CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.21.41', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.21.42', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.21.43', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.21.44', '- Other'], ['', '8703.21.51', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.21.52', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.21.53', '- Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.21.54', '- Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.21.55', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.21.56', '- Other'], ['230', '8703.22', 'Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine, of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc'], ['', '8703.22.20', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.22.51', '- CKD'], ['', '8703.22.52', '- CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.22.61', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.22.62', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.22.63', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.22.64', '- Other'], ['', '8703.22.71', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.22.72', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.22.73', '- Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.22.74', '- Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.22.75', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.22.76', '- Other'], ['231', '8703.23', 'Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine, of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.12', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.23.15', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.16', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.17', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.21', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.22', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.23', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.24', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.25', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.26', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.27', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.28', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.31', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.32', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.33', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.34', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.35', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.36', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.37', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.38', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.41', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.42', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.43', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.44', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.45', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.46', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.47', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.51', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.52', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.53', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.54', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.55', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.56', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.57', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.58', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.61', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.62', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.63', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.64', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.65', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.66', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.67', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.68', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.71', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.72', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.23.73', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.23.74', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['232', '8703.24', 'Other vehicles, with spark-ignition internal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine, of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.24.12', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.24.21', '-CKD'], ['', '8703.24.22', '-CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.31', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.32', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.33', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.34', '-Other'], ['', '8703.24.41', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.42', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.43', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.24.44', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.45', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.46', '-Other'], ['', '8703.24.52', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.24.61', '-CKD'], ['', '8703.24.62', '-CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.71', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.72', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.73', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.74', '-Other'], ['', '8703.24.81', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.82', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.83', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.24.84', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.24.85', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.24.86', '-Other'], ['233', '8703.31', 'Other vehicles, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel), of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc'], ['', '8703.31.20', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.31.51', '- CKD'], ['', '8703.31.52', '-New'], ['', '8703.31.53', '-Used'], ['', '8703.31.61', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.31.62', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.31.63', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.31.64', '- Other'], ['', '8703.31.71', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.31.72', '- Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.31.73', '- Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.31.74', '- New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.31.75', '- Used motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.31.76', '- Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.31.77', '- Other'], ['234', '8703.32', 'Other vehicles, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel), of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not\nexceeding 2,500 cc'], ['235', '8703.33', 'Other vehicles, with compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel), of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.33.12', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.33.21', '-CKD'], ['', '8703.33.22', '-CBU/Other, new'], ['', '8703.33.23', '-CBU/Other, used'], ['', '8703.33.24', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.25', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.26', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.27', '-Other'], ['', '8703.33.28', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.29', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.30', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.33.31', '-New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.32', '-Used motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.33', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.34', '-Other'], ['', '8703.33.42', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.33.51', '-CKD'], ['', '8703.33.52', '-CBU/Other, new'], ['', '8703.33.53', '-CBU/Other, used'], ['', '8703.33.54', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.55', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.56', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.57', '-Other'], ['', '8703.33.58', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.59', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.61', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.33.62', '-New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.63', '-Used motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),'], ['', '', 'CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.64', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.65', '-Other'], ['', '8703.33.72', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.33.81', '-CKD'], ['', '8703.33.82', '-CBU/Other, new'], ['', '8703.33.83', '-CBU/Other, used'], ['', '8703.33.84', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.85', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.86', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.87', '-Other'], ['', '8703.33.88', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CKD'], ['', '8703.33.89', '-Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.91', '-Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CKD'], ['', '8703.33.92', '-New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.93', '-Used motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '8703.33.94', '-Other, new/CKD'], ['', '8703.33.99', '-Other, used'], ['236', '8703.90', 'Other motor cars and other motor vehicles principally designed for the transport\nof persons (other than those of heading 87.02), including station wagons and\nracing cars'], ['', '8703.90.12', '- Motor-homes'], ['', '8703.90.21', '- Electric-powered'], ['', '8703.90.22', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.23', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.24', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.25', '-Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.26', '-Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.26A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.26B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.27', '-Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.27A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.27B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.28', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.28A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.28B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.31', '-Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.31A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.31B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.32', '-Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.32A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.32B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.33', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.34', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.35', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.36', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.37', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.37A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.37B', 'B. Other\uf020\uf020'], ['', '8703.90.38', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.38A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.38B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.41', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.41A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.41B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.42', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.42A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.42B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.43', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.43A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.43B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.44', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.45', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.46', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.47', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.48', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.48A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.48B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.51', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.51A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor'], ['', '', 'vehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.51B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.52', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.52A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.52B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.53', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.53A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.53B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.54', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.54A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.54B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.61', '- Electric-powered'], ['', '8703.90.62', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.63', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.64', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.65', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.66', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.66A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one\nor more countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.66B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.67', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.67A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one\nor more countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.67B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.68', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.68A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one\nor more countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.68B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.71', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.71A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one\nor more countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.71B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.72', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.72A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one\nor more countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.72B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.73', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.74', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.75', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.76', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.77', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.77A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.77B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.78', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.78A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.78B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.81', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.81A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.81B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.82', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.82A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.82B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.83', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.83A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.83B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.84', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.85', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.86', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.87', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.88', '- Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.90.88A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.88B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.91', '- Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.91A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.91B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.92', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '8703.90.92A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.92B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.93', '- Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '8703.90.93A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.93B', 'B. Other'], ['', '8703.90.94', '- Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.90.94A', 'A. Components, parts and/or accessories imported from one or\nmore countries for assembly of motor vehicles by participants in the motor\nvehicle development program'], ['', '8703.90.94B', 'B. Other'], ['237', '8704.21', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods, with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel), g.v.w. not exceeding 5\nt'], ['', '8704.21.12', '- Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.21.13', '- Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.21.14', '- Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.21.15', '- Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.21.16', '- Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.21.19', '- Other'], ['', '8704.21.22', '- Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.21.23', '- Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.21.24', '- Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.21.25', '- Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.21.26', '- Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.21.29', '- Other'], ['238', '8704.22', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods, with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel), g.v.w. exceeding 5 t\nbut not exceeding 20 t'], ['', '8704.22.12', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.13', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.14', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.15', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.16', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.19', '-Other'], ['', '8704.22.22', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.23', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.24', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.25', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.26', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.29', '-Other'], ['', '8704.22.32', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.33', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.34', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.35', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.36', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.39', '-Other'], ['', '8704.22.42', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.43', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.44', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.45', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.46', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.52', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.53', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.54', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.55', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.56', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.59', '-Other'], ['', '8704.22.62', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.22.63', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.64', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.22.65', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.22.66', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.22.69', '-Other'], ['239', '8704.23', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods, with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel), g.v.w. exceeding 20 t:'], ['', '8704.23.12', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.23.13', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.14', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.23.15', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.16', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.23.19', '-Other'], ['', '8704.23.22', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.23.23', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.24', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.23.25', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.26', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.23.29', '-Other'], ['', '8704.23.32', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.23.33', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.34', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.23.35', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.36', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.23.39', '-Other'], ['', '8704.23.42', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.23.43', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.44', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.23.45', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.23.46', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.23.49', '-Other'], ['240', '8704.31', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods, with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine, g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '8704.31.12', '- Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.31.13', '- Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.31.14', '- Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.31.15', '- Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.31.16', '- Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.31.17', '- Three-wheeled light trucks of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 356 cc and a\npayload capacity not exceeding 350 kg'], ['', '8704.31.19', '- Other'], ['', '8704.31.22', '- Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.31.23', '- Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.31.24', '- Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.31.25', '- Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.31.26', '- Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.31.27', '- Three-wheeled light trucks of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 356 cc and a\npayload capacity not exceeding 350 kg'], ['', '8704.31.29', '- Other'], ['241', '8704.32', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods, with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine, g.v.w. exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '8704.32.12', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.13', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.14', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.15', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.16', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.17', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.21', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.22', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.23', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.24', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.25', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.26', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.28', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.31', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.32', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.33', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.34', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.35', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.37', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.38', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.41', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.42', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.43', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.44', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.46', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.47', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.48', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.51', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles:'], ['', '8704.32.52', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.53', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.55', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.56', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.57', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.58', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.61', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.62', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.64', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.65', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.66', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.67', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.68', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.69', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.72', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.73', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.74', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.75', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.76', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.77', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.81', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.82', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.83', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.84', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.85', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.86', '-Other'], ['', '8704.32.88', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '8704.32.91', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.92', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '8704.32.93', '-Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '8704.32.94', '-Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '8704.32.95', '-Other'], ['242', '8704.90', 'Other motor vehicles for the transport of goods'], ['243', '8706.00', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05:'], ['', '8706.00.19', '- Other'], ['', '8706.00.21', '- For vehicles of subheading 8702.10'], ['', '8706.00.22', '- For vehicles of subheading 8702.90'], ['', '8706.00.39', '- Other'], ['', '8706.00.41', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '8706.00.49', '- Other'], ['244', '8708.29', 'Other parts and accessories of bodies (including cabs), nes, of the motor vehicles\nof headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['245', '8708.39', 'Other brakes and servo-brakes and parts thereof, of the motor vehicles of\nheadings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['246', '8708.60', 'Non-driving axles and parts thereof, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to\n87.05'], ['247', '8708.99', 'Other parts and accessories of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05, nes'], ['248', '8711.10', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with\nor without side-cars; side-cars, with reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cc'], ['249', '8711.20', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with\nor without side-cars; side-cars, with reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['250', '8711.30', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with\nor without side-cars; side-cars, with reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['251', '8711.40', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with\nor without side-cars; side-cars, with reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 500 cc but not exceeding 800 cc'], ['252', '8711.50', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with\nor without side-cars; side-cars, with reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 800 cc'], ['253', '8711.90', 'Other motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor,\nwith or without side-cars; side-cars'], ['254', '8714.11', 'Saddles, for motorcycles (including mopeds)'], ['255', '8714.19', 'Other parts and accessories of motorcycles (including mopeds)'], ['256', '9029.20', 'Speed indicators and tachometers; stroboscopes'], ['', '9029.20.10', '- Speedometers for motor vehicles'], ['', '9029.20.90', '- Other'], ['257', '9104.00', 'Instrument panel clocks and clocks of a similar type for vehicles, aircraft,\nspacecraft or vessels'], ['', '9104.00.10', '- For vehicles'], ['258', '9401.90', 'Parts of seats (other than those of heading 94.02), whether or not convertible into\nbeds'], ['259', '9403.30', 'Wooden furniture of a kind used in offices']]
 APPENDIX 1 SENSITIVE LIST   Viet Nam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '190110', '- Preparations for infant use, put up for retail sale:'], ['', '19011029', '- Other'], ['', '19011030', '- Of soya bean powder'], ['', '19011093', '- Other, containing cocoa'], ['', '19011099', '- Other'], ['2', '190190', '- Other:'], ['', '19019011', '- Of goods of heading 04.01 to 04.04'], ['', '19019019', '- Other'], ['', '19019031', '- Filled milk'], ['', '19019033', '- Other, not containing cocoa'], ['', '19019034', '- Other, containing cocoa'], ['', '19019041', '- In powder form'], ['', '19019049', '- In other form'], ['', '19019052', '- Other,not containing cocoa'], ['', '19019053', '- Other, containing cocoa'], ['3', '210690', '- Other:'], ['', '21069059', '-Other'], ['', '21069061', '-Of a kind used for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, in liquid form'], ['', '21069062', '-Of a kind used for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, in other form'], ['', '21069063', '-Other'], ['', '21069064', '-Of a kind used for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, in liquid form'], ['', '21069065', '-Of a kind used for the manufacture of alcoholic beverages, in other form'], ['', '21069066', '-Other'], ['4', '230990', '- Other:'], ['', '23099013', '- Prawn feed'], ['5', '25233000', '- Aluminous cement'], ['6', '25239000', '- Other hydraulic cements'], ['7', '270900', '- Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous minerals, crude.'], ['', '27090020', '- Condensate'], ['', '27090090', '- Other'], ['8', '27109100', '- Containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated terphenyls\n(PCTs) or polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs)'], ['9', '27109900', '- Other'], ['10', '28151100', '- Solid'], ['11', '28151200', '- In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)'], ['12', '29173100', '- Dibutyl orthophthalates'], ['13', '29173200', '- Dioctyl orthophthalates'], ['14', '29173300', '- Dinonyl or didecyl orthophthalates'], ['15', '29173400', '- Other esters of orthophthalic acid'], ['16', '29224100', '- Lysine and its esters; salts thereof'], ['17', '292242', '- Glutamic acid and its salts:'], ['', '29224220', '- Monosodium glutamate'], ['', '29224290', '- Other salts'], ['18', '294110', '- Penicillins and their derivatives with a penicillanic acid structure; salts thereof:'], ['', '29411011', '- Non-sterile'], ['', '29411019', '- Other'], ['', '29411020', '- Ampicillin and its salts'], ['19', '300410', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a penicillanic acid structure,\norstreptomycins or their derivatives:'], ['', '30041011', '- Containing penicillin G or its salts (excluding penicillin G benzathin)'], ['', '30041012', '- Containing phenoxymethyl penicillin or its salts'], ['', '30041013', '- Containing ampicillin or its salts, for taking orally'], ['', '30041014', '- Containing amoxycillin or its salts, for taking orally'], ['20', '300420', '- Containing other antibiotics:'], ['', '30042011', '- For taking orally'], ['', '30042012', '- Ointment'], ['', '30042021', '- For taking orally'], ['', '30042022', '- Ointment'], ['', '30042031', '- For taking orally'], ['', '30042032', '- Ointment'], ['', '30042041', '- Containing gentamycines or derivatives thereof, for injection'], ['', '30042042', '- Containing lincomycins or derivatives thereof, for taking orally'], ['', '30042043', '- Ointments'], ['21', '300450', '- Other medicaments containing vitamins or other products of heading 29.36:'], ['', '30045020', '- Containing vitamins A, other than goods of subheading 3004.50.10 and\n3004.50.79'], ['', '30045030', '- Containing vitamins B1, B2, B6 or B12 , other than goods of subheadings\n3004.50.10, 3004.50.71 and 3004.50.79'], ['', '30045040', '- Containing vitamins C, other than goods of subheadings 3004.50.10 and\n3004.50.79'], ['', '30045079', '- Other'], ['22', '300490', '- Other:'], ['', '30049099', '- Other'], ['23', '31031000', '- Superphosphates'], ['24', '310390', '- Other:'], ['', '31039010', '- Calcined phosphatic fertiliser'], ['25', '31051000', '- Goods of this Chapter in tablets or similar forms or in packages of a gross\nweight not exceeding 10 kg'], ['26', '31052000', '- Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing the three fertilising elements nitrogen,\nphosphorus and potassium'], ['27', '320810', '- Based on polyesters:'], ['', '32081029', '- Other'], ['', '32081030', '- Enamels'], ['', '32081050', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32081061', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32081069', '- Other'], ['', '32081090', '- Other'], ['28', '320820', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers::'], ['', '32082029', '- Other'], ['', '32082030', '- Enamels'], ['', '32082050', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32082061', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32082069', '- Other'], ['', '32082090', '- Other'], ['29', '320890', '- Other:'], ['', '32089029', '- Other'], ['', '32089030', '- Enamel'], ['', '32089050', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32089061', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32089069', '- Other'], ['', '32089090', '- Other'], ['30', '320910', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers:'], ['', '32091020', '- Varnishes (including lacquers), not exceeding 1000C heat-resistance'], ['', '32091030', '- Enamel'], ['', '32091060', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32091071', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32091079', '- Other'], ['', '32091090', '- Other'], ['31', '320990', '- Other:'], ['', '32099020', '- Varnishes (including lacquers), not exceeding 1000C heat-resistance'], ['', '32099030', '- Enamels'], ['', '32099060', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32099071', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32099079', '- Other'], ['', '32099090', '- Other'], ['32', '321000', 'Other paints and varnishes (including enamels, lacquers and distempers);\nprepared water pigments of a kind used for finishing leather.'], ['', '32100019', '- Other'], ['', '32100040', '- Enamels'], ['', '32100050', '- Polyurethane tar coating'], ['', '32100070', '- Undercoats and priming paints'], ['', '32100081', '- Containing insecticide derivatives'], ['', '32100089', '- Other'], ['', '32100090', '- Other'], ['33', '33030000', '- Perfumes and toilet waters.'], ['34', '33041000', '- Lip make-up preparations'], ['35', '33042000', '- Eye make-up preparations'], ['36', '33043000', '- Manicure or pedicure preparations'], ['37', '33049100', '- Powders, whether or not compressed'], ['38', '330499', '- Other:'], ['', '33049910', '- Face and skin creams and lotions'], ['', '33049920', '- Anti-acne creams'], ['', '33049990', '- Other'], ['39', '33052000', '- Preparations for permanent waving or straightening'], ['40', '330590', '- Other:'], ['', '33059010', '- Brilliantines and other hair oils'], ['', '33059090', '- Other'], ['41', '33071000', '- Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations'], ['42', '33073000', '- Perfumed bath salts and other bath preparations'], ['43', '340111', '- For toilet use, (including medicated products):'], ['', '34011110', '- Medicated products'], ['', '34011120', '- Bath soap'], ['', '34011130', '- Other, of felt or nonwovens, impregnated, coated or covered with soap or\ndetergent'], ['', '34011190', '- Other'], ['44', '340119', '- Other:'], ['', '34011910', '- Of felt or nonwovens, impregnated, coated or covered with soap or detergent'], ['', '34011990', '- Other'], ['45', '34013000', '- Organic surface-active products and preparations for washing the skin, in the\nform of liquid or cream and put up for retail sale, whether or not containing soap'], ['46', '340319', '- Other:'], ['', '34031919', '- Other'], ['47', '390320', '- Styrene-acryonitrile (SAN) copolymers:'], ['', '39032020', '- Granules'], ['', '39032030', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['48', '390330', '- Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) copolymers:'], ['', '39033020', '- Granules'], ['', '39033030', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['49', '390390', '- Other:'], ['', '39039020', '- Granules'], ['', '39039030', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['50', '340399', '- Other:'], ['', '34039919', '- Other'], ['', '34039990', '- Other'], ['51', '35069100', '- Adhesives based on polymers of headings 39.01 to 39.13 or on rubber'], ['52', '35069900', '- Other'], ['53', '390421', '- Non-plasticised:'], ['', '39042110', '- In powder form'], ['', '39042121', '- Used in the manufacture of telephonic or electric wire'], ['', '39042129', '- Other'], ['54', '390422', '- Plasticised:'], ['', '39042221', '- Used in the manufacture of telephonic or electric wire'], ['', '39042229', '- Other'], ['55', '39051200', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['56', '39052100', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['57', '390599', '- Other:'], ['', '39059911', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['58', '390610', '- Poly(methyl methacrylate):'], ['', '39061010', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['59', '390690', '- Other:'], ['', '39069011', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['', '39069091', '- In aqueous dispersion'], ['60', '391721', '- Of polymers of ethylene:'], ['', '39172190', '- Other'], ['61', '391723', '- Of polymers of propylene:'], ['', '39172390', '- Other'], ['62', '391729', '- Of other plastics:'], ['', '39172990', '- Other'], ['63', '391731', '- Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum burst pressure of 27.6 MPa:'], ['', '39173190', '- Other'], ['64', '391732', '- Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials, without\nfittings:'], ['', '39173290', '- Other'], ['65', '391733', '- Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with other materials, with fittings:'], ['', '39173390', '- Other'], ['66', '391739', '- Other:'], ['', '39173990', '- Other'], ['67', '39174000', '- Fittings'], ['68', '391810', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride:'], ['', '39181011', '- Tiles'], ['', '39181019', '- Other'], ['', '39181090', '- Other'], ['69', '391890', '- Of other plastics:'], ['', '39189011', '- Tiles, of polyethylene'], ['', '39189012', '- Tiles, of other plastics'], ['', '39189013', '- Other, of polyethylene'], ['', '39189019', '- Other'], ['', '39189091', '- Of polyethylene'], ['', '39189099', '- Other'], ['70', '391910', '- In rolls of a width not exceeding 20 cm:'], ['', '39191019', '- Other'], ['', '39191029', '- Other'], ['', '39191090', '- Other'], ['71', '392020', '- Of polymers of propylene:'], ['', '39202020', '- BOPP film'], ['', '39202090', '- Other'], ['72', '392043', '- Containing by weight not less than 6% of plasticisers:'], ['', '39204390', '- Other'], ['73', '39221000', '- Baths, shower-baths, sinks and wash-basins'], ['74', '392220', '- Lavatory seats and covers:'], ['', '39222010', '- Covers'], ['', '39222090', '- Other'], ['75', '392290', '- Other:'], ['', '39229010', '- Flushing water closets (lavatory pans) and urinals'], ['', '39229020', '- Parts of flushing cisterns'], ['', '39229090', '- Other'], ['76', '39241000', '- Tableware and kitchenware'], ['77', '392490', '- Other:'], ['', '39249010', '- Bed pans, urinals (portable type) and chamber-pots'], ['', '39249090', '- Other'], ['78', '39251000', '- Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, of a capacity exceeding 300 l'], ['79', '39252000', '- Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for doors'], ['80', '39253000', '- Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts thereof'], ['81', '39259000', '- Other'], ['82', '392620', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and\nmitts):'], ['', '39262090', '- Other, including belts'], ['83', '39263000', '- Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the like'], ['84', '392690', '- Other:'], ['', '39269099', '- Other'], ['85', '40114000', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles'], ['86', '40115000', '- Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['87', '401199', '- Other:'], ['', '40119990', '- Other, of a width exceeding 450 mm'], ['88', '40132000', '- Of a kind used on bicycles'], ['89', '401390', '- Other:'], ['', '40139019', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450 mm'], ['', '40139020', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles or motor scooters'], ['', '40139099', '- Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450 mm'], ['90', '40161000', '- Of cellular rubber'], ['91', '480257', '- Other, weighing 40 g/ m2 or more but not more than 150 g/ m2:'], ['', '48025710', '- For printing banknotes; used in the manufacture of gypsum boards and\ncomputer cards or paper'], ['', '48025720', '- Fancy paper and paperboard including with watermarks, granitized felt finish,\nfibers or blend of specks and vellum antique finish'], ['92', '480261', '- In rolls:'], ['', '48026120', '- For printing banknotes; manufacture of gypsum boards and computer cards or\npaper'], ['93', '480269', '- Other:'], ['', '48026920', '- For printing banknotes; manufacture of gypsum boards and computer cards or\npaper'], ['94', '48052500', '- Weighing more than 150 g/ m2'], ['95', '481013', '- In rolls:'], ['', '48101390', '- Other'], ['96', '481019', '- Other:'], ['', '48101990', '- Other'], ['97', '48141000', '- "Ingrain" paper'], ['98', '481420', ''], ['', '48142000', '- Wallpaper and similar wall coverings, consisting of paper coated or covered, on\nthe face side, with a grained, embossed, coloured, design-printed or otherwise\ndecorated layer of plastics'], ['99', '48143000', '- Wallpaper and similar wall coverings, consisting of paper covered, on the face\nside, with plaiting material, whether or not bound together in parallel strands or\nwoven'], ['100', '481490', '- Other:'], ['', '48149010', '- Wallpaper and similar wall coverings, consisting of grained, embossed, surface-\ncoloured, design-printed, or otherwise surface-decorated paper, coated or covered\nwith transparent protective plastics'], ['', '48149090', '- Other'], ['101', '48191000', '- Cartons, boxes and cases, of corrugated paper or paperboard'], ['102', '481920', '- Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of non-corrugated paper or paperboard:'], ['', '48192010', '- Boxes'], ['', '48192090', '- Other'], ['103', '482110', '- Printed:'], ['', '48211010', '- Labels that form part of packing for jewellery or for small objects of personal\nadornment or for articles of personal use normally carried in the pocket, in the\nhandbag or on the person'], ['', '48211090', '- Other'], ['104', '482190', '- Other:'], ['', '48219010', '- Labels that form part of packing for jewellery or for small objects of personal\nadornment or for articles of personal use normally carried in the pocket, in the\nhandbag or on the person'], ['', '48219090', '- Other'], ['105', '52081200', '- Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/ m2'], ['106', '52081900', '- Other fabrics'], ['107', '52083900', '- Other fabrics'], ['108', '52085200', '- Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/ m2'], ['109', '52085900', '- Other fabrics'], ['110', '52092900', '- Other fabrics'], ['111', '52094200', '- Denim'], ['112', '52094900', '- Other fabrics'], ['113', '52103900', '- Other fabrics'], ['114', '52104100', '- Plain weave'], ['115', '52111100', '- Plain weave'], ['116', '52111200', '- 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill'], ['117', '52121300', '- Dyed'], ['118', '540710', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of nylon or other polyamides or\nofpolyesters:'], ['', '54071019', '- Other'], ['', '54071099', '- Other'], ['119', '540810', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of viscose rayon:'], ['', '54081090', '- Other'], ['120', '55121100', '- Unbleached or bleached'], ['121', '55121900', '- Other'], ['122', '55129900', '- Other'], ['123', '55131900', '- Other woven fabrics'], ['124', '55151100', '- Mixed mainly or solely with viscose rayon staple fibres'], ['125', '55151900', '- Other'], ['126', '55159900', '- Other'], ['127', '55161200', '- Dyed'], ['128', '56039200', '- Weighing more than 25 g/ m2 but not more than 70 g/ m2'], ['129', '56039400', '- Weighing more than 150 g/ m2'], ['130', '580190', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '58019090', '- Other'], ['131', '580410', '- Tulles and other net fabrics:'], ['', '58041090', '- Other'], ['132', '590390', '- Other:'], ['', '59039090', '- Other'], ['133', '600191', '- Of cotton:'], ['', '60019110', '- Unbleached, not mercerised'], ['', '60019190', '- Other'], ['134', '600199', '- Of other textile materials:'], ['', '60019990', '- Other'], ['135', '60029000', '- Other'], ['136', '64062000', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber or plastics'], ['137', '681091', '- Prefabricated structural components for building or civil engineering:'], ['', '68109110', '- Concrete building piles'], ['', '68109190', '- Other'], ['138', '69120000', 'Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household articles and toilet articles, other\nthan of porcelain or china.'], ['139', '700312', '- Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer:'], ['', '70031220', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70031290', '- Other'], ['140', '700319', '- Other:'], ['', '70031920', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70031990', '- Other'], ['141', '700320', '- Wired sheets:'], ['', '70032010', '- In squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70032090', '- Other'], ['142', '700330', '- Profiles:'], ['', '70033010', '- In squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70033090', '- Other'], ['143', '700420', '- Glass, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having\nan absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer:'], ['', '70042020', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70042090', '- Other'], ['144', '700490', '- Other glass:'], ['', '70049020', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70049090', '- Other'], ['145', '700510', '- Non-wired glass, having an absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer:'], ['', '70051020', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70051090', '- Other'], ['146', '700521', '- Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or merely\nsurface ground:'], ['', '70052120', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70052190', '- Other'], ['147', '700529', '- Other:'], ['', '70052920', '- Other, in squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70052990', '- Other'], ['148', '700530', '- Wired glass:'], ['', '70053010', '- In squares or rectangular shape (including 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 corners cut)'], ['', '70053090', '- Other'], ['149', '700600', 'Glass of heading 70.03, 70.04 or 70.05, bent, edge-worked, engraved, drilled,\nenamelled or otherwise worked, but not framed or fitted with other materials.'], ['', '70060090', '- Other'], ['150', '700711', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels:'], ['', '70071110', '- Suitable for vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['151', '700721', '- Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or\nvessels:'], ['', '70072110', '- Suitable for vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['152', '70080000', 'Multiple-walled insulating units of glass.'], ['153', '70091000', '- Rear-view mirrors for vehicles'], ['154', '70099100', '- Unframed'], ['155', '70099200', '- Framed'], ['156', '701321', '- Of lead crystal:'], ['', '70132110', '- Not ground, polished, opacified or otherwise worked'], ['', '70132190', '- Other'], ['157', '701331', '- Of lead crystal:'], ['', '70133110', '- Not ground, polished, opacified or otherwise worked'], ['', '70133190', '- Other'], ['158', '70161000', '- Glass cubes and other glass smallwares, whether or not on a backing, for\nmosaics or similar decorative purposes'], ['159', '70169000', '- Other'], ['160', '70181000', '- Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation precious or semi-precious stones and'], ['', '', 'similar glass smallwares'], ['161', '701890', '- Other:'], ['', '70189090', '- Other'], ['162', '72071100', '- Of rectangular (including square) cross-section, the width measuring less than\ntwice the thickness'], ['163', '720712', '- Other, of rectangular (other than square) cross-section:'], ['', '72071210', '- Slabs'], ['', '72071290', '- Other'], ['164', '720720', '- Containing by weight 0.25% or more of carbon:'], ['', '72072019', '- Other'], ['', '72072099', '- Other'], ['165', '72083600', '- Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm'], ['166', '720837', '- Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 10 mm:'], ['', '72083710', '- Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['167', '720838', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm:'], ['', '72083810', '- Steel plates and sheets containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['168', '72085400', '- Of a thickness of less than 3 mm'], ['169', '720915', ''], ['', '72091500', '- Of a thickness of 3 mm or more'], ['170', '72099000', '- Other'], ['171', '721030', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc:'], ['', '72103019', '- Other'], ['', '72103099', '- Other'], ['172', '721069', '- Other:'], ['', '72106910', '- Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72106990', '- Other'], ['173', '721070', '- Painted, varnished or coated with plastics:'], ['', '72107040', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc, of thickness exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['174', '721090', '- Other:'], ['', '72109040', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc, of thickness exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['175', '721114', '- Other, of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more:'], ['', '72111411', '- Universal plates'], ['', '72111412', '- Hoop and strip'], ['', '72111419', '- Other'], ['', '72111491', '- Universal plates'], ['', '72111492', '- Coils for re-rolling'], ['', '72111493', '- Corrugated'], ['', '72111494', '- Other, hoop and strip'], ['', '72111499', '- Other'], ['176', '721119', '- Other:'], ['', '72111911', '- Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 100 mm in width'], ['', '72111912', '- Other, hoop and strip'], ['', '72111919', '- Other'], ['', '72111991', '- Tape and band exceeding 100 mm in width'], ['', '72111992', '- Coils for re-rolling'], ['', '72111993', '- Corrugated'], ['', '72111994', '- Other, hoop and strip'], ['', '72111999', '- Other'], ['177', '721391', '- Of circular cross-section measuring less than 14 mm in diameter:'], ['', '72139110', '- For making soldering bars'], ['178', '721399', '- Other:'], ['', '72139910', '- For making soldering bars'], ['179', '721499', '- Other:'], ['', '72149912', '- Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '72149922', '- Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '72149932', '- Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['180', '721730', '- Plated or coated with other base metals:'], ['', '72173010', '- Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon'], ['181', '722300', 'Wire of stainless steel.'], ['', '72230090', '- Other'], ['182', '730660', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section:'], ['', '73066099', '- Other'], ['183', '73083000', '- Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for doors'], ['184', '730890', '- Other:'], ['', '73089040', '- Parts of tubes or tunnels, made of formed and bended corrugated sheet of iron or\nsteel'], ['', '73089090', '- Other'], ['185', '731511', '- Roller chain:'], ['', '73151111', '- Chain for bicycles'], ['', '73151112', '- Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '73151121', '- Chain for bicycles'], ['', '73151122', '- Chain for motorcycles'], ['186', '731519', '- Parts:'], ['', '73151910', '- Of chain for bicycles'], ['', '73151920', '- Of other chain for motorcycles'], ['187', '731589', '- Other:'], ['', '73158911', '- Chain for bicycles'], ['', '73158912', '- Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '73158921', '- Chain for bicycles'], ['', '73158922', '- Chain for motorcycles'], ['188', '731590', '- Other parts:'], ['', '73159010', '- Chain for motorcycles and bicycles'], ['189', '731812', '- Other wood screws:'], ['', '73181290', '- Other'], ['190', '731814', '- Self-tapping screws:'], ['', '73181490', '- Other'], ['191', '731815', '- Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers:'], ['', '73181511', '- Screws for metal'], ['', '73181512', '- Bolts for metal, with or without nuts'], ['', '73181519', '- Other'], ['', '73181591', '- Screws for metal'], ['', '73181592', '- Bolts for metal, with or without nuts'], ['', '73181599', '- Other'], ['192', '731816', '- Nuts:'], ['', '73181690', '- Other'], ['193', '731819', '- Other:'], ['', '73181910', '- Of an external diameter not exceeding 16 mm'], ['', '73181990', '- Other'], ['194', '73242100', '- Of cast iron, whether or not enamelled'], ['195', '73242900', '- Other'], ['196', '732690', '- Other:'], ['', '73269090', '- Other'], ['197', '740811', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6 mm:'], ['', '74081110', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 6 mm but not\nexceeds 14 mm'], ['', '74081120', '- Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension exceeds 14 mm but not\nexceeds 25 mm'], ['', '74081190', '- Other'], ['198', '760611', '- Of aluminium, not alloyed:'], ['', '76061190', '- Other'], ['199', '760720', '- Backed:'], ['', '76072090', '- Other'], ['200', '82032000', '- Pliers (including cutting pliers), pincers, tweezers and similar tools'], ['201', '82130000', "Scissors, tailors' shears and similar shears, and blades therefor."], ['202', '82142000', '- Manicure or pedicure sets and instruments (including nail files)'], ['203', '82152000', '- Other sets of assorted articles'], ['204', '83012000', '- Locks of a kind used for motor vehicles'], ['205', '830140', '- Other locks:'], ['', '83014090', '- Other'], ['206', '83016000', '- Parts'], ['207', '83021000', '- Hinges'], ['208', '83022000', '- Castors'], ['209', '830241', '- Suitable for buildings:'], ['', '83024110', '- Hasps'], ['', '83024120', '- Bolts, hooks, eyes and staples'], ['', '83024190', '- Other'], ['210', '83024900', '- Other'], ['211', '83026000', '- Automatic door closers'], ['212', '83082000', '- Tubular or bifurcated rivets'], ['213', '830890', '- Other, including parts:'], ['', '83089090', '- Other'], ['214', '840732', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc:'], ['', '84073211', '- Exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 110 cc'], ['', '84073212', '- Exceeding 110 cc but not exceeding 125 cc'], ['', '84073219', '- Exceeding 125 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['', '84073291', '- Exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 110 cc'], ['', '84073292', '- Exceeding 110 cc but not exceeding 125 cc'], ['', '84073299', '- Exceeding 125 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['215', '840733', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '84073310', '- For vehicles of heading 87.01'], ['216', '840734', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '84073411', '- For pedestrian controlled tractors, of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,100 cc'], ['', '84073412', '- For other vehicles of heading 87.01'], ['217', '840991', '- Suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion\npiston engines:'], ['', '84099121', '- Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099122', '- Cylinder blocks, liners, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099123', '- Pistons, piston rings, gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099124', '- Alternator brackets; oil pans'], ['', '84099129', '- Other'], ['218', '840999', '- Other:'], ['', '84099961', '- Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099962', '- Cylinder blocks, liners, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099963', '- Pistons, piston rings, gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099964', '- Alternator brackets; oil pans'], ['', '84099969', '- Other'], ['219', '84132000', '- Hand pumps, other than those of subheading 8413.11 or 8413.19'], ['220', '841370', '- Other centrifugal pumps:'], ['', '84137021', '- Water pumps specially designed for submarine use'], ['', '84137024', '- Other, water pumps with capacity exceeding 8000 m³/h but not exceeding 13000\nm³/h'], ['', '84137030', '- Not electrically operated'], ['221', '841391', '- Of pumps:'], ['', '84139110', '- Of pumps of subheading 8413.20.00'], ['', '84139120', '- Of pumps of subheading 8413.70.10'], ['', '84139130', '- Of other centrifugal pumps'], ['', '84139141', '- Of water pumps with capacity not exceeding 8000 m³/h, except those specially\ndesigned for submarine use'], ['', '84139190', '- Of other pumps, not electrically operated'], ['222', '84142000', '- Hand- or foot-operated air pumps'], ['223', '841490', '- Parts:'], ['', '84149019', '- Other'], ['', '84149099', '- Other'], ['224', '841583', '- Not incorporating a refrigerating unit:'], ['', '84158311', '- Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158312', '- Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158313', '- Of an output exceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158314', '- Of an output exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158321', '- Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158322', '- Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158323', '- Of an output exceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158324', '- Of an output exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158331', '- Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158332', '- Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158333', '- Of an output exceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158334', '- Of an output exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158391', '- Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158392', '- Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158393', '- Of an output exceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['', '84158394', '- Of an output exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['225', '841830', '- Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding 800 l capacity:'], ['', '84183010', '- Not exceeding 200 l capacity'], ['', '84183020', '- Exceeding 200 l but not exceeding 800 l capacity'], ['226', '841840', '- Freezers of the upright type, not exceeding 900 l capacity:'], ['', '84184010', '- Not exceeding 200 l capacity'], ['', '84184020', '- Exceeding 200 l but not exceeding 900 l capacity'], ['227', '841850', '- Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display counters, show-cases\nand similar refrigerating or freezing furniture'], ['', '84185019', '- Other'], ['', '84185022', '- Refrigerating chambers'], ['', '84185029', '- Other'], ['228', '842112', '- Clothes-dryers:'], ['', '84211210', '- Of capacity not exceeding 30 l'], ['', '84211220', '- Of capacity exceeding 30 l'], ['229', '842131', '- Intake air filters for internal combustion engines:'], ['', '84213120', '- For motor vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['230', '842211', '- Of the household type:'], ['', '84221110', '- Electrically operated'], ['', '84221120', '- Not electrically operated'], ['231', '845011', '- Fully-automatic machines:'], ['', '84501110', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '84501120', '- Each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 6 kg'], ['232', '845012', '- Other machines, with built-in centrifugal drier:'], ['', '84501210', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '84501220', '- Each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 6 kg'], ['233', '845019', '- Other:'], ['', '84501910', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 6 kg'], ['', '84501920', '- Each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 6 kg'], ['234', '84502000', '- Machines, each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 10 kg'], ['235', '84512100', '- Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg'], ['236', '845290', '- Other parts of sewing machines:'], ['', '84529010', '- Of machinery of subheading 8452.10'], ['237', '848310', '- Transmission shafts (including cam shafts and crank shafts) and cranks:'], ['', '84831024', '- For engines of other vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['238', '848390', '- Toothed wheels, chain sprockets and other transmission elements presented\nseparately; parts:'], ['', '84839014', '- For goods of heading 87.11'], ['', '84839015', '- For other goods of Chapter 87'], ['', '84839094', '- For goods of heading 87.11'], ['', '84839095', '- For other goods of Chapter 87'], ['239', '850110', '- Motors of an output not exceeding 37.5 W:'], ['', '85011011', '- Stepper motors'], ['', '85011091', '- Stepper motors'], ['', '85011092', '- Spindle motors'], ['', '85011099', '- Other'], ['240', '850120', '- Universal AC/DC motors of an output exceeding 37.5 W:'], ['', '85012010', '- Of an output not exceeding 1 kW'], ['', '85012020', '- Of an output exceeding 1 kW'], ['241', '850131', '- Of an output not exceeding 750 W:'], ['', '85013110', '- Motors'], ['', '85013120', '- Generators'], ['242', '850421', '- Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 650 kVA:'], ['', '85042110', '- Step-voltage regulators; instrument transformers with handling capacity not\nexceeding 5 kVA'], ['', '85042191', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 10 kVA'], ['', '85042199', '- Other'], ['243', '850422', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 650 kVA but not exceeding\n10,000 kVA:'], ['', '85042211', '- Of a high side voltage of 66,000 volts or more'], ['', '85042219', '- Other'], ['', '85042290', '- Other'], ['244', '850431', '- Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 1 kVA:'], ['', '85043110', '- Instrument potential transformers'], ['', '85043120', '- Instrument current transformers'], ['', '85043140', '- Intermediate frequency transformers'], ['', '85043150', '- Step up/down transformers, slide regulators, stabilisers'], ['', '85043190', '- Other'], ['245', '850432', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 1 kVA but not exceeding 16 kVA:'], ['', '85043210', '- Instrument transformers, (potential and current) of a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 5 kVA'], ['', '85043220', '- Used with toys, scale models or similar recreational models'], ['', '85043291', '- Of a power handling capacity not exceeding 10 kVA'], ['', '85043299', '- Of a power handling capacity exceeding 10 kVA'], ['246', '850434', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 500 kVA:'], ['', '85043411', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 10,000 kVA or of high side\nvoltage of 66,000 volts or more'], ['', '85043419', '- Other'], ['', '85043420', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 15,000 kVA'], ['247', '85063000', '- Mercuric oxide'], ['248', '85064000', '- Silver oxide'], ['249', '85065000', '- Lithium'], ['250', '850660', '- Air-zinc:'], ['', '85066010', '- Having external volume not exceeding 300 cm3'], ['251', '850730', '- Nickel-cadmium:'], ['', '85073090', '- Other'], ['252', '850740', '- Nickel-iron:'], ['', '85074090', '- Other'], ['253', '85092000', '- Floor polishers'], ['254', '851610', '- Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters:'], ['', '85161030', '- Immersion heaters'], ['255', '85162100', '- Storage heating radiators'], ['256', '85162900', '- Other'], ['257', '85163100', '- Hair dryers'], ['258', '85163200', '- Other hair-dressing apparatus'], ['259', '85163300', '- Hand-drying apparatus'], ['260', '851640', '- Electric smoothing irons:'], ['', '85164010', '- Of a kind designed to use steam from industrial boilers'], ['', '85164090', '- Other'], ['261', '85167100', '- Coffee or tea makers'], ['262', '85167200', '- Toasters'], ['263', '851679', '- Other:'], ['', '85167910', '- Kettles'], ['', '85167990', '- Other'], ['264', '851680', '- Electric heating resistors:'], ['', '85168020', '- Sealed hotplates for domestic appliances'], ['', '85168030', '- Other, for domestic appliances'], ['265', '851840', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers:'], ['', '85184010', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers, having 6 or more input signal lines, with or\nwithout elements for capacity amplifier'], ['', '85184020', '- Electric amplifiers when used as repeaters in line telephony products falling\nwithin the Information Technology Agreement (ITA) [ITA1/B-192]'], ['', '85184030', '- Audio frequency amplifiers used as repeaters in telephony other than line\ntelephony [ITA/2]'], ['', '85184090', '- Other'], ['266', '851850', '- Electric sound amplifier sets:'], ['', '85185010', '- Of an output of 240 W or more'], ['', '85185020', '- Sound amplifier sets combined with loudspeaker line for broadcasting, having\nvoltage of 50 V to 100 V'], ['', '85185090', '- Other'], ['267', '85191000', '- Coin- or disc-operated record-players'], ['268', '85192100', '- Without loudspeaker'], ['269', '85192900', '- Other'], ['270', '85193100', '- With automatic record changing mechanism'], ['271', '85193900', '- Other'], ['272', '852032', '- Digital audio type:'], ['', '85203290', '- Other'], ['273', '852033', '- Other, cassette-type:'], ['', '85203320', '- Pocket size cassette recorders, the dimensions of which do not exceed 170 mm x\n100 mm x 45 mm [ITA/2]'], ['', '85203330', '- Cassette recorders, with built in amplifiers and one or more built in\nloudspeakers, operating only with an external source of power [ITA/2]'], ['', '85203390', '- Other'], ['274', '852039', '- Other:'], ['', '85203990', '- Other'], ['275', '852090', '- Other:'], ['', '85209090', '- Other'], ['276', '852110', '- Magnetic tape-type:'], ['', '85211090', '- Other'], ['277', '852190', '- Other:'], ['', '85219019', '- Other'], ['', '85219099', '- Other'], ['278', '852410', '- Gramophone records:'], ['', '85241090', '- Other'], ['279', '852530', '- Television cameras:'], ['', '85253010', '- Cameras, without recording function, working in conjunction with an automatic\ndata processing machine, the dimensions of which do not exceed 130 mm x 70\nmm x 45 mm [ITA/2]'], ['', '85253090', '- Other'], ['280', '852540', '- Still image video cameras and other video camera recorders; digital cameras:'], ['', '85254020', '- Other still image video cameras'], ['', '85254030', '- Digital cameras'], ['', '85254040', '- Other video camera recorders'], ['281', '852719', '- Other:'], ['', '85271910', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85271920', '- Reception apparatus capable of planning managing, and monitoring of\nelectromagnetic spectrum [ITA/2]'], ['', '85271990', '- Other'], ['282', '852721', '- Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['', '85272110', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85272190', '- Other'], ['283', '852729', '- Other:'], ['', '85272910', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85272990', '- Other'], ['284', '852731', '- Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['', '85273110', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85273190', '- Other'], ['285', '85273200', '- Not combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus but combined\nwith a clock'], ['286', '852739', '- Other:'], ['', '85273910', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85273990', '- Other'], ['287', '852790', '- Other:'], ['', '85279091', '- For radio-telephony or radio-telegraphy'], ['', '85279092', '- For distress signals from ships or aircraft'], ['', '85279099', '- Other'], ['288', '85281300', '- Black and white or other monochrome'], ['289', '852821', '- Colour:'], ['', '85282110', '- FPD type monitors for video and computer data, for overhead projectors\n[ITA1/B-200]'], ['', '85282190', '- Other'], ['290', '852830', '- Video projectors:'], ['', '85283020', '- Flat panel display type video and computer data projectors [ITA1/B-200]'], ['', '85283090', '- Other'], ['291', '852910', '- Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith:'], ['', '85291020', '- Parabolic aerial reflector dishes for direct broadcast multi-media systems and\nparts thereof'], ['', '85291030', '- Telescopic, rabbit and dipole antennae for television or radio receivers'], ['', '85291040', '- Aerial filters and separators [ITA/2]'], ['292', '853610', '- Fuses:'], ['', '85361010', '- Thermal fuses; glass type fuses'], ['293', '853620', '- Automatic circuit breakers:'], ['', '85362010', '- Moulded case type'], ['', '85362020', '- For incorporation into electro-thermic domestic appliances of heading 85.16'], ['', '85362090', '- Other'], ['294', '853630', '- Other apparatus for protecting electrical circuits:'], ['', '85363090', '- Other'], ['295', '85364100', '- For a voltage not exceeding 60 V'], ['296', '853650', '- Other switches:'], ['', '85365030', '- High inrush switches and commutators for stoves and ranges; microphone\nswitches; power switches for television or radio receivers; switches for electric\nfans; rotary, slide, see-saw and magnetic switches for air-conditioning machines'], ['', '85365040', '- Miniature switches for rice cookers or oven toasters'], ['', '85365060', '- Make and break swiches of a kind used in domestic electrical wiring not\nexceeding 500 V and having a rated current carrying capacity not exceeding 20\namp'], ['', '85365090', '- Other'], ['297', '853669', '- Plugs and sockets:'], ['', '85366910', '- Telephone plugs'], ['', '85366920', '- Audio/video sockets and cathode ray tube (CRT) sockets for television or radio\nreceivers'], ['', '85366990', '- Other'], ['298', '853690', '- Other apparatus:'], ['', '85369020', '- Junction boxes'], ['', '85369030', '- Cable connectors consisting of a jack plug, terminal with or without pin,\nconnector and adaptor for coaxial cable; commutator'], ['', '85369090', '- Other'], ['299', '853910', '- Sealed beam lamp units:'], ['', '85391010', '- For motor vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['300', '853921', '- Tungsten halogen:'], ['', '85392130', '- Of a kind used for motor vehicles'], ['301', '853922', '- Other, of a power not exceeding 200 W and for a voltage exceeding 100 V:'], ['', '85392290', '- Other'], ['302', '853929', '- Other:'], ['', '85392930', '- Bulbs of a kind used for motor vehicles'], ['', '85392950', '- Other, having capacity exceeding 200 W but not exceeding 300 W and a voltage\nexceeding 100 V'], ['303', '853931', '- Fluorescent, hot cathode:'], ['', '85393110', '- Tubes for compact fluorescent lamps'], ['', '85393120', '- Tube lamps/fluorescent lamps in straight or circular form'], ['', '85393190', '- Other'], ['304', '853939', '- Other:'], ['', '85393920', '- Discharge lamps for decorative or publicity purposes'], ['', '85393940', '- Electric lamps for motor vehicle or cycles'], ['305', '854411', '- Of copper:'], ['', '85441110', '- Lacquered or enamelled'], ['', '85441120', '- Covered with paper, textile material or PVC'], ['', '85441130', '- Lacquered or enamelled and covered with paper, textile material or PVC'], ['', '85441140', '- Other, rectangular cross-section and without connectors'], ['', '85441190', '- Other'], ['306', '854420', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors:'], ['', '85442010', '- Insulated cables fitted with connectors, for a voltage not exceeding 66,000 V'], ['', '85442020', '- Insulated cables not fitted with connectors, for a voltage not exceeding 66,000 V'], ['307', '854430', '- Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets of a kind used in vehicles, aircraft or\nships:'], ['', '85443010', '- Wiring harnesses for motor vehicles'], ['308', '854441', '- Fitted with connectors:'], ['', '85444112', '- Telephone cables, other than submarine'], ['', '85444114', '- Telegraph and radio relay cables, other than submarine'], ['', '85444115', '- Other plastic insulated electric cable having cross section not exceeding\n300mm²'], ['', '85444191', '- Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section not exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85444192', '- Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85444193', '- Plastic insulated electric conductors'], ['', '85444194', '- Controlling cables'], ['', '85444195', '- Battery cables'], ['', '85444199', '- Other'], ['309', '854449', '- Other:'], ['', '85444991', '- Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section not exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85444992', '- Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85444993', '- Plastic insulated electric conductors'], ['', '85444994', '- Controlling cables'], ['', '85444995', '- Shielded wire of a kind used in the manufacture of automotive wiring harness'], ['', '85444999', '- Other'], ['310', '854451', '- Fitted with connectors:'], ['', '85445192', '- Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85445194', '- Controlling cables'], ['', '85445199', '- Other'], ['311', '870110', '- Pedestrian controlled tractors:'], ['', '87011021', '- Two-wheeled agricultural tractors'], ['', '87011022', '- Other two-wheeled tractors'], ['', '87011029', '- Other'], ['312', '870422', '- g.v.w exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 20 t:'], ['', '87042241', '-Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87042242', '-Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042243', '-Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042251', '-Refrigerated vans'], ['313', '870432', '- g.v.w. exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '87043274', '-Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['314', '870810', '- Bumpers and parts thereof:'], ['', '87081020', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87081030', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87081040', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87081050', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87081060', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87081090', '- Other'], ['315', '870831', '- Mounted brake linings:'], ['', '87083130', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87083140', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87083150', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87083160', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87083170', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87083190', '- Other'], ['316', '870839', '- Other:'], ['', '87083930', '- For vehicles of subheadings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87083940', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87083950', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87083960', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87083970', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87083990', '- Other'], ['317', '870850', '- Drive-axles with differential, whether or not provided with other transmission\ncomponents:'], ['', '87085013', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87085014', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87085015', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except'], ['', '', 'ambulances)'], ['', '87085016', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87085017', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87085019', '- Other'], ['', '87085023', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87085024', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87085025', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87085026', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87085027', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87085029', '- Other'], ['318', '870860', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof:'], ['', '87086013', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87086014', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87086015', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87086016', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87086017', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87086019', '- Other'], ['', '87086023', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87086024', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87086025', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87086026', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87086027', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87086029', '- Other'], ['319', '870870', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof:'], ['', '87087093', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87087094', '- For ambulance'], ['', '87087095', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87087096', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87087097', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87087099', '- Other'], ['320', '870880', '- Suspension shock-absorbers:'], ['', '87088030', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87088040', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87088050', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87088060', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87088070', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87088090', '- Other'], ['321', '870891', '- Radiator:'], ['', '87089130', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87089140', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87089150', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87089160', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87089170', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87089190', '- Other'], ['322', '870893', '- Clutches and parts thereof:'], ['', '87089330', '- For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87089340', '- For ambulances'], ['', '87089350', '- For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87089360', '- For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87089370', '- For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87089390', '- Other'], ['323', '870894', '- Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes:'], ['', '87089419', '- Other'], ['', '87089429', '- Other'], ['324', '870899', '- Other:'], ['', '87089911', '- For vehicles of heading 87.01'], ['', '87089919', '- Other'], ['', '87089921', '- Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '87089929', '- Other'], ['', '87089931', '- Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '87089939', '- Other'], ['', '87089940', '- Other parts and accessories for vehicles of subheading 8701.90 (except\nagricultural tractors)'], ['', '87089991', '- Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '87089992', '- Automotive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders'], ['', '87089993', '- Parts of suspension shock-absorbers'], ['', '87089999', '- Other'], ['325', '871411', '- Saddles:'], ['', '87141110', '- For motorcycles of subheading 8711.10, 8711.20 or 8711.90'], ['', '87141120', '- For motorcycles of subheading 8711.30, 8711.40 or 8711.50'], ['326', '871491', '- Frames and forks, and parts thereof:'], ['', '87149110', '- Frames and folks for cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['327', '871492', '- Wheel rims and spokes:'], ['', '87149210', '- Wheel rims or spokes for cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['328', '871493', '- Hubs, other than coaster braking hubs and hub brakes, and free-wheel sprocket-\nwheels:'], ['', '87149310', '- For cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['', '87149390', '- Other'], ['329', '871494', '- Brakes, including coaster braking hubs and hub brakes, and parts thereof:'], ['', '87149410', '- For cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['330', '871495', '- Saddles:'], ['', '87149510', '- For cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['', '87149590', '- Other'], ['331', '871496', '- Pedals and crank-gear, and parts thereof:'], ['', '87149610', '- For cycles of subheading 8712.00.30'], ['', '87149620', '- Chain wheels or cranks'], ['', '87149690', '- Other'], ['332', '871499', '- Other:'], ['', '87149911', '- Nipples'], ['', '87149919', '- Other'], ['', '87149920', '- Other handle bars, seat pillars, carriers, control cables, reflectors, lamp bracket\nlugs, mudguards'], ['', '87149930', '- Other nipples or spokes'], ['', '87149990', '- Other parts'], ['333', '890200', 'Fishing vessels; factory ships and other vessels for processing or preserving\nfishery products.'], ['', '89020011', '- Fishing vessels'], ['', '89020012', '- Other'], ['', '89020021', '- Fishing vessels'], ['', '89020022', '- Other'], ['', '89020031', '- Fishing vessels'], ['', '89020032', '- Other'], ['334', '94031000', '- Metal furniture of a kind used in offices'], ['335', '940370', '- Furniture of plastics:'], ['', '94037010', '- Furniture of a kind used in offices'], ['', '94037090', '- Other'], ['336', '940600', 'Prefabricated buildings.'], ['', '94060010', '- Greenhouses fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment'], ['', '94060020', '- Steam bathrooms'], ['', '94060091', '- Of plastics'], ['', '94060092', '- Of wood'], ['', '94060093', '- Of cement, of concrete or of artificial stone'], ['', '94060094', '- Of iron or steel'], ['', '94060095', '- Of aluminium'], ['', '94060099', '- Other'], ['337', '96061000', '- Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press-studs and parts therefor'], ['338', '96062100', '- Of plastics, not covered with textile material'], ['339', '96062200', '- Of base metal, not covered with textile material'], ['340', '96071100', '- Fitted with chain scoops of base metal'], ['341', '96071900', '- Other'], ['342', '96162000', '- Powder-puffs and pads for the application of cosmetics or toilet preparations'], ['343', '961700', 'Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels, complete with cases; parts thereof,\nother than glass inners.'], ['', '96170010', '- Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels']]
APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping   Cambodia:  
[['NO.', None, None, 'HS CODE', None, None, 'DESCRIPTION', None, None], ['', '1', '', '', '5508.10', '', '', '- Of synthetic staple fibres', ''], ['2', None, None, '', '8447.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['3', None, None, '', '8507.30', '', '', '- Nickel-cadmium:', ''], ['', '4', '', '', '9403.10', '', '', '- Metal furniture of a kind used in offices', ''], ['5', None, None, '', '9406.00', '', '', 'Prefabricated buildings.', '']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    Indonesia:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '7216.50', '-Other angles, shapes and sections,not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-\ndrawn or extruded: containing by weight 0.6 % or more of carbon'], ['', '7216.50.11.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7216.50.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7216.50.91.00', '---Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7216.50.99.00', '---Other'], ['2', '7217.30', '-Plated or coated with other base metals'], ['', '7217.30.10.00', '--Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon'], ['', '7217.30.20.00', '--Containing by weight 0.25% or more of carbon'], ['', '7217.30.31.00', '----Beadwire (brass coated high carbon steel'], ['', '7217.30.32.00', '----Beadwire (coated with other copper alloys'], ['', '7217.30.33.00', '---Plated or coated with tin'], ['', '7217.30.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.30.90.00', '--Other'], ['3', '7305.19', '- - Other'], ['', '7305.19.00.00', '--Other'], ['4', '7306.30', '-Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel with internal\ndiameter less than 12.5 mm'], ['', '7306.30.21.00', '---High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.30.22.00', '---Boiler tubes'], ['', '7306.30.23.00', '---Single or double-walled, copper-plated or'], ['', '7306.30.24.00', '---Other, of external diameter less than'], ['', '7306.30.25.00', '---Other, of external diameter 140 mm or more'], ['', '7306.30.26.00', '---Other, of external diameter less than'], ['', '7306.30.27.00', '---Other, of external diameter 140 mm or more'], ['5', '7306.60', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section with internal diameter of\nless than 12.5 mm'], ['', '7306.60.91.00', '---High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.60.99.00', '---Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    Korea:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0306.23', '-Shrimps and prawns:'], ['', '0306233000', 'Salted or in brine'], ['2', '0406.10', '- Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese including whey cheese, and curd'], ['', '0406101000', 'Fresh cheese'], ['3', '0406.90', '- Other cheese'], ['', '0406900000', 'Other cheese'], ['4', '0805.10', '- Oranges'], ['', '0805100000', 'Oranges'], ['5', '0808.10', '- Apples'], ['', '0808100000', 'Apples'], ['6', '0808.20', '- Pears and quinces'], ['', '0808201000', 'Pears']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    Lao PDR:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '8407.31', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cc'], ['2', '8407.32', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['3', '8407.33', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['4', '8407.34', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['5', '8407.90', '- Other engines']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    Malaysia:  
[['BIL', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '252329', '-Other'], ['', '252329900', 'other'], ['2', '690710', '- Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether or not rectangular, the largest surface\narea of which is capable of being enclosed in a square the side of which is less\nthan 7 cm'], ['', '690710100', 'floor, hearth and wall tiles'], ['', '690710900', 'other'], ['3', '690810', '- Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether or not rectangular, the largest surface\narea of which is capable of being enclosed in a square the side of which is less\nthan 7 cm'], ['', '690810100', 'floor, hearth and wall tiles'], ['', '690810900', 'other'], ['4', '690890', '- Other'], ['', '690890100', 'floor, hearth and wall tiles'], ['', '690890900', 'other'], ['5', '700312', '-Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', '700312910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['6', '700319', '-Other'], ['', '700319910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['7', '700420', '- Glass, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having\nan absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', '700420910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['8', '700490', '- Other glass'], ['', '700490910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['9', '700521', '-Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or merely surface\nground'], ['', '700521910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['10', '700529', '-Other'], ['', '700529910', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['11', '700530', '- Wired glass'], ['', '700530100', 'in square or rectangular shape (including those with one or two or three or four\ncorners cut)'], ['12', '720825', '-Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more'], ['', '720825000', '-Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more'], ['13', '720826', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but less than 4.75mm'], ['', '720826000', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but less than 4.75mm'], ['14', '720827', '-Of a thickness of less than 3mm'], ['', '720827000', '-Of a thickness of less than 3mm']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    The Philippines:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '3919.90', 'Other self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, foil, tape, strip and other flat shapes, of\nplastics, whether or not in rolls'], ['2', '3920.30', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of styrene, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['3', '3923.30', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar articles, of plastics'], ['4', '3926.90', 'Other articles of plastics and articles of other materials of headings 39.01 to 39.14,\nnes'], ['', '3926.90.20', '-Fans and handscreens, frames and handles therefor, and parts thereof'], ['', '3926.90.53', '-Transmission or conveyor belts or belting'], ['', '3926.90.54', '-Other articles used in machinery'], ['', '3926.90.59', '-Other'], ['', '3926.90.91', '-Poultry feeders'], ['', '3926.90.93', '-Racket strings of a length not exceeding 15 m put up for retail sale'], ['', '3926.90.95', '-Other articles of non-rigid cellular products'], ['', '3926.90.96', '-Prayer beads'], ['5', '8536.69', 'Plugs and sockets'], ['', '8536.69.90', 'Other plugs and sockets']]
APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP A: Tariff lines subject to 50% tariff rate capping    Viet Nam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '220300', 'Beer made from malt.'], ['', '22030010', '- Stout and porter'], ['', '22030090', '- Other, including ale'], ['2', '22041000', '- Sparkling wine'], ['3', '220421', '-In containers holding 2 l or less:'], ['', '22042111', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042112', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042121', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042122', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['4', '220429', '-Other:'], ['', '22042911', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042912', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042921', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22042922', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['5', '220430', '- Other grape must:'], ['', '22043010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22043020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['6', '220510', '- In containers holding 2 l or less:'], ['', '22051010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22051020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15% vol'], ['7', '220590', '- Other:'], ['', '22059010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 15% vol'], ['', '22059020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15%'], ['8', '220600', ''], ['', '22060010', '- Cider and perry'], ['', '22060020', '- Sake (rice wine)'], ['', '22060030', '- Toddy'], ['', '22060040', '- Shandy of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 0.5% but not exceeding 1%'], ['', '22060050', '- Shandy of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 1% but not exceeding 3%'], ['', '22060090', '- Other, including mead'], ['9', '220820', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape marc:'], ['', '22082010', '-Brandy of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22082020', '-Brandy of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22082030', '-Other, of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22082040', '-Other, of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['10', '220830', '- Whiskies:'], ['', '22083010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22083020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['11', '220840', '- Rum and tafia:'], ['', '22084010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22084020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['12', '220850', '- Gin and Geneva:'], ['', '22085010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22085020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['13', '220860', '- Vodka:'], ['', '22086010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 46% vol'], ['', '22086020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 46% vol'], ['14', '220870', '- Liqueurs and cordials:'], ['', '22087010', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 57% vol'], ['', '22087020', '-Of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 57% vol'], ['15', '220890', '- Other:'], ['', '22089010', '-Medicated samsu of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 40% vol'], ['', '22089020', '-Medicated samsu of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 40% vol'], ['', '22089030', '-Other samsu of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 40% vol'], ['', '22089040', '-Other samsu of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 40% vol'], ['', '22089050', '-Arrack and pineapple spirit of an alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 40%\nvol'], ['', '22089060', '-Arrack and pineapple spirit of an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 40% vol'], ['', '22089070', '-Bitters and similar beverages of an alcoholic strength not exceeding 57% vol'], ['', '22089080', '-Bitters and similar beverages of an alcoholic strength exceeding 57% vol'], ['', '22089090', '-Other'], ['16', '63090000', 'Worn clothing and other worn articles.'], ['17', '69111000', '- Tableware and kitchenware'], ['18', '69119000', '- Other'], ['19', '70120000', 'Glass inners for vacuum flasks or for other vacuum vessels.'], ['20', '70131000', '- Of glass-ceramics'], ['21', '70132900', '-Other'], ['22', '70133200', '-Of glass having a linear coefficient of expansion not exceeding 5xl0-6 per Kelvin\nwithin a temperature range of 0oC to 300o C'], ['23', '70133900', '-Other'], ['24', '70139900', '-Other'], ['25', '721491', '-Of rectangular (other than square) cross-section'], ['', '72149119', '--Other'], ['', '72149121', '--Concrete steel'], ['', '72149129', '--Other'], ['26', '721499', '-Other:'], ['', '72149911', '--Concrete steel'], ['', '72149919', '--Other'], ['', '72149921', '--Concrete steel'], ['', '72149929', '--Other'], ['', '72149931', '--Concrete steel'], ['', '72149939', '--Other'], ['27', '72155000', '- Other, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished'], ['28', '84073100', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cc'], ['29', '854451', '-Fitted with connectors:'], ['', '85445191', '--Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section not exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85445193', '--Plastic insulated electric conductors'], ['30', '854459', '-Other:'], ['', '85445912', '--Telephone, telegraph and radio relay cables, other than submarine'], ['', '85445919', '--Other'], ['', '85445991', '--Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section not exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85445992', '--Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section exceeding 300 mm²'], ['', '85445993', '--Plastic insulated electric conductors'], ['', '85445994', '--Controlling cables'], ['', '85445999', '--Other'], ['31', '870423', '-g.v.w exceeding 20 t:'], ['', '87042331', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87042332', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042333', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042334', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042335', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042336', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042339', '--Other'], ['', '87042341', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87042342', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042343', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042344', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042345', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042346', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042349', '--Other'], ['32', '871150', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 800 cc:'], ['', '87115010', '-Motorcross motorcycles'], ['', '87115020', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '87115030', '-Other, CBU/Other'], ['33', '871200', 'Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery tricycles), not motorised.'], ['', '87120020', '- Other bicycles (including children’s bicycles in the normal form of adult bicycles)'], ['', '87120030', '- Bicycles designed to be ridden by children but not in the normal form of adult\nbicycles'], ['', '87120090', '- Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%  Cambodia:  
[['NO.', None, None, 'HS CODE', None, None, 'DESCRIPTION', None, None], ['', '1', '', '', '0810.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['', '2', '', '', '1511.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['', '3', '', '', '2201.10', '', '', '- Mineral waters and aerated waters', ''], ['', '4', '', '', '2203.00', '', '', 'Beer made from malt.', ''], ['', '5', '', '', '2205.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['6', None, None, '', '2208.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['7', None, None, '', '2710.19', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '8', '', '', '2821.10', '', '', '- Iron oxides and hydroxides', ''], ['', '9', '', '', '2836.50', '', '', '- Calcium carbonate', ''], ['', '10', '', '', '3305.10', '', '', '- Shampoos:', ''], ['', '11', '', '', '3305.30', '', '', '- Hair lacquers', ''], ['', '12', '', '', '3305.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['13', None, None, '', '3820.00', '', '', 'Anti-freezing preparations and prepared de-icing fluids.', ''], ['', '14', '', '', '3919.10', '', '', '- In rolls of a width not exceeding 20 cm:', ''], ['', '15', '', '', '3923.21', '', '', '-Of polymers of ethylene:', ''], ['', '16', '', '', '3923.50', '', '', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other closures:', ''], ['', '17', '', '', '3926.20', '', '', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and mitts):', ''], ['', '18', '', '', '3926.40', '', '', '- Statuettes and other ornamental articles', ''], ['', '19', '', '', '4011.10', '', '', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)', ''], ['', '20', '', '', '4011.20', '', '', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries:', ''], ['21', None, None, '4013.10', None, None, '', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars), buses or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'lorries:', None], ['', '22', '', '', '4104.11', '', '', '-Full grains, unsplit; grain splits:', ''], ['23', None, None, '4115.10', None, None, '', '- Composition leather with a basis of leather or leather fibre, in slabs, sheets or strip,', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'whether or not in rolls', None], ['', '24', '', '', '4804.21', '', '', '-Unbleached:', ''], ['', '25', '', '', '4804.39', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '26', '', '', '4805.19', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['', '27', '', '', '4805.30', '', '', '- Sulphite wrapping paper:', ''], ['', '28', '', '', '4810.13', '', '', '-In rolls:', ''], ['', '29', '', '', '4810.19', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '30', '', '', '4814.10', '', '', '- "Ingrain" paper', ''], ['', '31', '', '', '4818.50', '', '', '- Articles of apparel and clothing accessories:', ''], ['', '32', '', '', '4818.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['', '33', '', '', '4819.20', '', '', '- Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of non-corrugated paper or paperboard:', ''], ['', '34', '', '', '4901.10', '', '', '- In single sheets, whether or not folded:', ''], ['35', None, None, '', '4901.99', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['36', None, None, '', '5112.20', '', '', '- Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-made filaments:', ''], ['', '37', '', '', '5204.19', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['', '38', '', '', '5209.29', '', '', '-Other fabrics', ''], ['', '39', '', '', '5209.39', '', '', '-Other fabrics', ''], ['', '40', '', '', '5211.42', '', '', '-Denim', ''], ['', '41', '', '', '5401.10', '', '', '- Of synthetic filaments', ''], ['', '42', '', '', '5407.41', '', '', '-Unbleached or bleached:', ''], ['', '43', '', '', '5407.51', '', '', '-Unbleached or bleached:', ''], ['', '44', '', '', '5407.52', '', '', '-Dyed', ''], ['', '45', '', '', '5407.82', '', '', '-Dyed', ''], ['', '46', '', '', '5509.59', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '47', '', '', '5515.91', '', '', '-Mixed mainly or solely with man-made filaments', ''], ['', '48', '', '', '5603.11', '', '', '-Weighing not more than 25 g/m2:', ''], ['', '49', '', '', '5607.29', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['', '50', '', '', '5804.10', '', '', '- Tulles and other net fabrics:', ''], ['51', None, None, '5806.10', None, None, '', '- Woven pile fabrics (including terry towelling and similar terry fabrics) and', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'chenille fabrics:', None], ['52', None, None, '', '5806.32', '', '', '-Of man-made fibres:', ''], ['', '53', '', '', '5903.20', '', '', '- With polyurethane:', ''], ['', '54', '', '', '6002.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['55', None, None, '6004.10', None, None, '', '- Containing by weight 5% or more of elastomeric yarn but not containing rubber', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'thread', None], ['56', None, None, '', '6115.99', '', '', '-Of other textile materials:', ''], ['57', None, None, '', '6211.20', '', '', '- Ski suits:', ''], ['', '58', '', '', '6306.12', '', '', '-Of synthetic fibres', ''], ['59', None, None, '6404.11', None, None, '', '-Sports footwear; tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym shoes, training shoes and the', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'like', None], ['60', None, None, '6507.00', None, None, '', 'Head-bands, linings, covers, hat foundations, hat frames, peaks and chinstraps, for', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'headgear.', None], ['', '61', '', '', '7308.10', '', '', '- Bridges and bridge-sections:', ''], ['62', None, None, '', '7308.20', '', '', '- Towers and lattice masts:', ''], ['63', None, None, '', '7308.40', '', '', '- Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering, propping or pit-propping:', ''], ['64', None, None, '', '7311.00', '', '', 'Containers for compressed or liquefied gas, of iron or steel.', ''], ['', '65', '', '', '7320.10', '', '', '- Leaf-springs and leaves therefor:', ''], ['', '66', '', '', '7321.11', '', '', '-For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels:', ''], ['', '67', '', '', '7607.19', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['68', None, None, '8303.00', None, None, '', 'Armoured or reinforced safes, strong-boxes and doors and safe deposit lockers for', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'strong-rooms, cash or deed boxes and the like, of base metal.', None], ['', '69', '', '', '8402.11', '', '', '-Watertube boilers with a steam production exceeding 45 t per hour:', ''], ['', '70', '', '', '8403.10', '', '', '- Boilers', ''], ['', '71', '', '', '8408.20', '', '', '- Engines of a kind used for the propulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87:', ''], ['72', None, None, '', '8414.40', '', '', '- Air compressors mounted on a wheeled chassis for towing', ''], ['73', None, None, '', '8414.80', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['', '74', '', '', '8415.10', '', '', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system":', ''], ['', '75', '', '', '8418.10', '', '', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors:', ''], ['76', None, None, '', '8419.19', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['77', None, None, '', '8421.21', '', '', '-For filtering or purifying water:', ''], ['', '78', '', '', '8425.42', '', '', '-Other jacks and hoists, hydraulic:', ''], ['', '79', '', '', '8427.90', '', '', '- Other trucks', ''], ['', '80', '', '', '8429.19', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '81', '', '', '8429.52', '', '', '-Machinery with a 360o revolving superstructure:', ''], ['', '82', '', '', '8429.59', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '83', '', '', '8441.10', '', '', '- Cutting machines:', ''], ['84', None, None, '', '8445.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['85', None, None, '', '8447.20', '', '', '- Flat knitting machines; stitch-bonding machines:', ''], ['86', None, None, '', '8447.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['87', None, None, '8448.11', None, None, '', '-Dobbies and Jacquards; card reducing, copying, punching or assembling machines', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'for use therewith:', None], ['', '88', '', '', '8451.10', '', '', '- Dry-cleaning machines', ''], ['', '89', '', '', '8451.21', '', '', '-Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg', ''], ['', '90', '', '', '8451.29', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['', '91', '', '', '8451.30', '', '', '- Ironing machines and presses (including fusing presses)', ''], ['', '92', '', '', '8451.50', '', '', '- Machines for reeling, unreeling, folding, cutting or pinking textile fabrics', ''], ['', '93', '', '', '8451.80', '', '', '- Other machinery:', ''], ['', '94', '', '', '8452.21', '', '', '-Automatic units', ''], ['', '95', '', '', '8452.30', '', '', '- Sewing machine needles', ''], ['', '96', '', '', '8467.21', '', '', '-Drills of all kinds', ''], ['', '97', '', '', '8467.22', '', '', '-Saws', ''], ['', '98', '', '', '8467.29', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['99', None, None, '8471.41', None, None, '', '-Comprising in the same housing at least a central processing unit andan input and', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'output unit, whether or not combined:', None], ['100', None, None, '8471.50', None, None, '', '- Digital processing units other than those of subheading 8471.41 or 8471.49,', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'whether or not containing in the same housing one or two of the following types of', None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'unit: storage units,input units, output units:', None], ['', '101', '', '', '8474.32', '', '', '-Machines for mixing mineral substances with bitumen:', ''], ['102', None, None, '', '8481.80', '', '', '- Other appliances:', ''], ['', '103', '', '', '8501.32', '', '', '-Of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding 75 kW:', ''], ['', '104', '', '', '8501.62', '', '', '-Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not exceeding 375 kVA', ''], ['', '105', '', '', '8501.63', '', '', '-Of an output exceeding 375 kVA but not exceeding 750 kVA', ''], ['', '106', '', '', '8502.11', '', '', '-Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', ''], ['', '107', '', '', '8502.12', '', '', '-Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not exceeding 375 kVA:', ''], ['', '108', '', '', '8502.13', '', '', '-Of an output exceeding 375 kVA', ''], ['', '109', '', '', '8502.20', '', '', '- Generating sets with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines:', ''], ['110', None, None, '8503.00', None, None, '', 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the machines of heading 85.01or', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '85.02.', None], ['', '111', '', '', '8507.10', '', '', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines:', ''], ['112', None, None, '', '8507.30', '', '', '- Nickel-cadmium:', ''], ['', '113', '', '', '8515.19', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['114', None, None, '', '8516.40', '', '', '- Electric smoothing irons:', ''], ['115', None, None, '', '8525.20', '', '', '- Transmission apparatus incorporating reception apparatus:', ''], ['', '116', '', '', '8528.12', '', '', '-Colour:', ''], ['', '117', '', '', '8535.40', '', '', '- Lightning arresters, voltage limiters and surge suppressors:', ''], ['', '118', '', '', '8535.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['119', None, None, '', '8536.90', '', '', '- Other apparatus:', ''], ['', '120', '', '', '8537.10', '', '', '- For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V:', ''], ['', '121', '', '', '8544.20', '', '', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors:', ''], ['', '122', '', '', '8544.41', '', '', '-Fitted with connectors:', ''], ['', '123', '', '', '8544.59', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '124', '', '', '8544.60', '', '', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage exceeding 1,000 V:', ''], ['', '125', '', '', '8546.90', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['', '126', '', '', '8547.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['127', None, None, '', '8701.20', '', '', '- Road tractors for semi-trailers:', ''], ['128', None, None, '', '8702.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['129', None, None, '', '8703.22', '', '', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc:', ''], ['130', None, None, '', '8703.23', '', '', '- Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc:', ''], ['131', None, None, '', '8703.24', '', '', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc:', ''], ['132', None, None, '', '8703.32', '', '', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc:', ''], ['133', None, None, '', '8703.33', '', '', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc:', ''], ['134', None, None, '', '8704.23', '', '', '-g.v.w exceeding 20 t:', ''], ['135', None, None, '', '8704.31', '', '', '-g.w.w not exceeding 5 t:', ''], ['136', None, None, '', '8704.32', '', '', '-g.v.w. exceeding 5 t:', ''], ['137', None, None, '', '8705.10', '', '', '- Crane lorries', ''], ['138', None, None, '', '8708.70', '', '', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof:', ''], ['139', None, None, '8711.10', None, None, '', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity not', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'exceeding 50 cc:', None], ['140', None, None, '', '9006.59', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['', '141', '', '', '9007.20', '', '', '- Projectors:', ''], ['', '142', '', '', '9015.80', '', '', '- Other instruments and appliances:', ''], ['', '143', '', '', '9022.19', '', '', '-For other uses:', ''], ['', '144', '', '', '9401.30', '', '', '- Swivel seats with variable height adjustment', ''], ['', '145', '', '', '9401.71', '', '', '-Upholstered', ''], ['', '146', '', '', '9401.79', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['', '147', '', '', '9403.10', '', '', '- Metal furniture of a kind used in offices', ''], ['', '148', '', '', '9403.20', '', '', '- Other metal furniture:', ''], ['', '149', '', '', '9403.30', '', '', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in offices:', ''], ['', '150', '', '', '9403.60', '', '', '- Other wooden furniture:', ''], ['', '151', '', '', '9403.80', '', '', '- Furniture of other materials, including cane, osier, bamboo or similar materials:', ''], ['152', None, None, '', '9406.00', '', '', 'Prefabricated buildings.', ''], ['153', None, None, '', '9504.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['154', None, None, '', '9507.20', '', '', '- Fish-hooks, whether or not snelled', ''], ['', '155', '', '', '9606.10', '', '', '- Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press-studs and parts therefor', ''], ['', '156', '', '', '9606.21', '', '', '-Of plastics, not covered with textile material', ''], ['', '157', '', '', '9606.22', '', '', '-Of base metal, not covered with textile material', ''], ['', '158', '', '', '9607.11', '', '', '-Fitted with chain scoops of base metal', ''], ['', '159', '', '', '9607.19', '', '', '-Other', '']]
APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%  Indonesia:   
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '1005.90', '- Other'], ['', '1005.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['2', '1201.00', 'Soya beans, whether or not broken'], ['', '1201.00.90.00', '-Other'], ['3', '1302.31', '- - Agar-agar'], ['', '1302.31.00.00', '--Agar-agar'], ['4', '7101.10', '- Natural pearls'], ['', '7101.10.10.00', '--Graded and temporarily strung for'], ['5', '7101.22', '- - Worked'], ['', '7101.22.10.00', '---Graded and temporarily strung for'], ['6', '7208.10', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['', '7208.10.10.10', '---Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.10.20.10', '---Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.10.30.10', '---Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa, of'], ['', '7208.10.90.10', '---Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['7', '7208.40', '- Other, not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled with patterns in relief'], ['', '7208.40.00.10', '--Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.40.00.90', '--Other'], ['8', '7208.51', '--Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm'], ['', '7208.51.00.90', '---Other'], ['9', '7208.90', '- Other'], ['', '7208.90.10.10', '---In coils, of a thickness more than 2 mm'], ['', '7208.90.10.20', '---Not in coils, of a thickness more than'], ['', '7208.90.20.10', '---In coils, of a thickness more than 2 mm'], ['', '7208.90.20.20', '---Not in coils, of a thickness more than'], ['', '7208.90.30.10', '---In coils, of a maximum tensile strength of'], ['', '7208.90.90.10', '---In coils, of a maximum tensile strength of'], ['', '7208.90.90.20', '---Not in coils, of a maximum tensile strength'], ['10', '7209.16', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['', '7209.16.00.90', '---Other'], ['11', '7209.17', '- --Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not\nexceeding 1 mm'], ['', '7209.17.00.90', '---Other'], ['12', '7209.18', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5mm'], ['', '7209.18.90.10', '----Of a thickness of 0.14 mm but less than'], ['', '7209.18.90.90', '----Other'], ['13', '7209.25', '- - Of a thickness of 3mm or more'], ['', '7209.25.00.00', '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more'], ['14', '7209.26', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['', '7209.26.00.10', '---Of a width up to 1,250 mm, pickled or not'], ['15', '7209.27', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5mm or more but not exceeding 1mm'], ['', '7209.27.00.10', '---Of a width up to 1,250 mm, pickled or not'], ['', '7209.27.00.90', '---Other'], ['16', '7209.28', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5mm'], ['', '7209.28.00.10', '---Of tickness more than 0.14mm, of width more'], ['17', '7210.20', '- Plated or coated with lead, including terne-plate'], ['', '7210.20.00.00', '-Plated or coated with lead, including'], ['18', '7210.30', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7210.30.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7210.30.91.00', '---Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '7210.30.99.00', '---Other'], ['19', '7210.41', '- - Corrugated'], ['', '7210.41.10.00', '---Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '7210.41.90.00', '---Other'], ['20', '7210.49', '- - Other'], ['', '7210.49.90.00', '---Other'], ['21', '7210.61', '- - Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys'], ['', '7210.61.90.00', '---Other'], ['22', '7210.69', '-- Other'], ['', '7210.69.90.00', '---Other'], ['23', '7210.70', '- Painted, varnished or coated with plastics, not clad, plated or coated with metal'], ['', '7210.70.12.00', '---Of a thickness less than 4.75 mm or'], ['', '7210.70.20.00', '--Plated or coated with tin, lead or chromium'], ['', '7210.70.30.00', '--Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7210.70.40.00', '--Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7210.70.50.00', '--Otherwise plated or coated with zinc or'], ['', '7210.70.60.00', '--Plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of'], ['', '7210.70.70.00', '--Plated or coated with other metals, of'], ['', '7210.70.90.00', '--Other'], ['', '7211.13.91.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.13.92.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.13.93.00', '----Hoop and strip'], ['', '7211.13.99.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.13.99.90', '-----Other'], ['24', '7211.14', '- - Other, of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more'], ['', '7211.14.11.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.12.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.19.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.91.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.92.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.93.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.94.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.94.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.14.99.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.14.99.90', '-----Other'], ['25', '7211.19', '-- Other'], ['', '7211.19.11.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7211.19.12.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.19.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.91.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.92.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.93.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.94.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.94.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.19.99.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7211.19.99.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.23.30.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm'], ['', '7211.23.91.10', '-----Of a thickness of 0.14 mm up to 0.17 mm'], ['', '7211.23.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.23.99.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 0.17 mm up to'], ['', '7211.23.99.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.29.12.00', '----Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not'], ['', '7211.29.13.00', '----Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding'], ['', '7211.29.14.00', '----Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm'], ['', '7211.29.15.10', '-----Of a thickness of 0.14 mm up to 0.17 mm'], ['', '7211.29.15.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.29.19.10', '-----Of a thickness more than 0.17 mm up to'], ['', '7211.29.19.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7211.29.29.10', '----Of a thickness of 0.14 mm but less than'], ['', '7211.29.29.90', '-----Other'], ['26', '7211.90', '--Other, containing by weight 0.6% or more of\ncarbon'], ['', '7211.90.11.00', '---Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not'], ['', '7211.90.12.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm'], ['', '7211.90.13.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7211.90.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7211.90.91.00', '---Corrugated'], ['', '7211.90.92.00', '---Tape and band exceeding 25 mm but not'], ['', '7211.90.93.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm'], ['', '7211.90.94.00', '---Other, hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7211.90.95.00', '---Other, of a thickness of 0.170 mm or less'], ['27', '7212.10', '- Plated or coated with tin, containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7212.10.11.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.10.12.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.10.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.10.91.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.10.92.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.10.99.00', '---Other'], ['28', '7212.30', '- Otherwise plated or coated with zinc containing by weight 0.6% or more of\ncarbon, corrugated'], ['', '7212.30.11.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.30.12.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.30.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.30.21.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.30.22.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.30.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.30.31.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.30.32.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.30.33.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.30.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.30.91.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.30.92.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.30.93.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.30.99.00', '---Other'], ['29', '7212.40', '- Painted, varnished or coated with plastics, containing by weight 0.6% or\nmore of carbon'], ['', '7212.40.12.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.40.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.40.21.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.40.22.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.40.23.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.40.29.00', '---Other'], ['30', '7212.50', 'Otherwise plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys containing by weight\n0.6 % or more of carbon'], ['', '7212.50.12.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.13.00', '----Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.50.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7212.50.21.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.22.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.23.00', '----Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.50.29.00', '----Other'], ['', '7212.50.31.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.32.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.39.00', '----Other'], ['', '7212.50.41.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.42.00', '----Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.50.43.00', '----Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.50.49.00', '----Other'], ['31', '7212.60', '- Clad, containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon'], ['', '7212.60.11.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.60.12.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.60.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.60.21.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.60.22.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.60.23.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.60.29.00', '---Other'], ['32', '7213.10', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations produced during the\nrolling process'], ['', '7213.10.10.00', '--Of circular cross-section measuring not'], ['', '7213.10.20.00', '--Of rectangular ( including square ) cross'], ['', '7213.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['33', '7213.91', '- - Of circular cross-section measuring less than 14mm in diameter'], ['', '7213.91.10.00', '---For making soldering bars'], ['', '7213.91.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7213.91.92.00', '----Cold heading in coil'], ['34', '7213.99', '-- Other'], ['', '7213.99.10.00', '---For making soldering bars'], ['', '7213.99.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7213.99.92.00', '----Cold heading in coil'], ['', '7213.99.99.00', '----Other'], ['35', '7214.20', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations produced during the'], ['', '', 'rolling process or twisted after rolling'], ['', '7214.20.00.00', '-Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or'], ['36', '7214.91', '- - Of rectangular (other than square) cross-section, containing by weight less\nthan 0.6 % of carbon'], ['', '7214.91.11.00', '----Concrete steel'], ['', '7214.91.12.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '7214.91.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7214.91.21.00', '----Concrete steel'], ['', '7214.91.29.00', '----Other'], ['37', '7214.99', '-- Other'], ['', '7214.99.11.00', '----Concrete steel'], ['', '7214.99.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7214.99.21.00', '----Concrete steel'], ['', '7214.99.22.00', '----Shaft bars; manganese steel'], ['', '7214.99.29.00', '----Other'], ['', '7214.99.31.00', '----Concrete steel'], ['', '7214.99.39.00', '----Other'], ['38', '7215.50', '- Other, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished'], ['', '7215.50.00.00', '-Other, not further worked than cold-formed'], ['39', '7216.22', '- - T sections'], ['', '7216.22.00.00', '--T sections'], ['40', '7216.31', '- - U sections'], ['', '7216.31.11.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.31.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7216.31.91.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.31.99.00', '----Other'], ['41', '7216.40', '- L or T sections, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a\nheight of 80mm or more, containing by weight 0.6 % or more of carbon'], ['', '7216.40.11.00', '---L sections of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7216.40.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7216.40.91.00', '---L sections of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7216.40.99.00', '---Other'], ['42', '7216.61', '- - Obtained from flat-rolled products'], ['', '7216.61.00.00', '--Obtained from flat-rolled products'], ['43', '7216.69', '-- Other, angles, other than slotted angles'], ['', '7216.69.11.00', '----Containing by weight 0.6 % or more carbon'], ['', '7216.69.12.00', '----Containing by weight 0.6 % or more carbon'], ['', '7216.69.13.00', '----Other, of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7216.69.14.00', '----Other, of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7216.69.21.00', '----Of a thickness of 5 mm or less'], ['', '7216.69.29.00', '----Other'], ['44', '7216.91', '- - Cold-formed or cold-finished from flat-rolled products, angles, other than\nslotted angles'], ['', '7216.91.11.00', '----Containing by weight 0.6 % or more carbon'], ['', '7216.91.12.00', '----Containing by weight 0.6 % or more carbon'], ['', '7216.91.13.00', '----Other, of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '7216.91.14.00', '----Other, of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7216.91.20.00', '---Slotted angles, roll-formed from pure'], ['', '7216.91.31.00', '----Of a thickness of 5 mm or less'], ['', '7216.91.39.00', '----Other'], ['45', '7216.99', '-- Other'], ['', '7216.99.00.00', '--Other'], ['', '7217.10.21.00', '---Spokes wire'], ['', '7217.10.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.10.31.00', '---Spokes wire; bead wire; flat hard steel'], ['', '7217.10.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.20.21.00', '---Electrolytic coated and spokes wire'], ['', '7217.20.22.00', '---Flat hard steel reed wire; prestressed'], ['', '7217.20.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.20.31.00', '---Electrolytic coated and spokes wire'], ['', '7217.20.32.00', '---Flat hard steel reed wire; prestressed'], ['', '7217.20.33.00', '---High carbon steel core wire for Aluminium'], ['', '7217.20.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.20.41.00', '---Electrolytic coated and spokes wire'], ['', '7217.20.42.00', '---Flat hard steel reed wire; prestressed'], ['', '7217.20.43.00', '---High carbon steel core wire for Aluminium'], ['', '7217.20.49.00', '---Other'], ['', '7217.90.20.00', '--Other containing by weight less than 0.25%'], ['', '7217.90.30.00', '--Other containing by weight 0.25% or more but'], ['', '7217.90.40.00', '--Other containing by weight 0.45% or more but'], ['46', '7219.35', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['', '7219.35.00.00', '--Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['47', '7220.20', '- Not further worked than cold-rolled (cold-reduced)'], ['', '7220.20.10.00', '--Hoop and strip'], ['', '7220.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['48', '7301.20', '- Angles, shapes and sections'], ['', '7301.20.00.00', '-Angles, shapes and sections'], ['49', '7303.00', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron.'], ['', '7303.00.11.00', '--With an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7303.00.12.00', '--With an external diameter exceeding 100 mm'], ['', '7303.00.13.00', '--With an external diameter exceeding 150 mm'], ['', '7303.00.19.00', '--Other'], ['', '7303.00.21.00', '--With an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7303.00.22.00', '--Other'], ['', '7303.00.91.00', '--With an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7303.00.92.00', '--Other'], ['50', '7304.21', '- - Other'], ['', '7304.21.00.10', '---Unfinished drill pipe (green pipe) with'], ['', '7304.21.00.90', '---Other'], ['', '7304.29.00.90', '---Other'], ['51', '7305.11', '-Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipe-lines'], ['', '7305.11.00.00', '--Longitudinally submerged arc welded'], ['52', '7305.12', '- - Other'], ['', '7305.12.00.00', '--Other, longitudinally welded'], ['53', '7305.20', '- Other, welded:'], ['', '7305.20.00.00', '-Casing of a kind used in drilling for oil or'], ['54', '7305.31', 'Longitudinally welded, Stainless steel pipes and tubes'], ['', '7305.31.11.00', '----High pressure conduits'], ['', '7305.31.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7305.31.91.00', '----High pressure conduits'], ['', '7305.31.99.00', '----Other'], ['55', '7305.39', 'Other'], ['', '7305.39.10.00', '---High pressure conduits'], ['', '7305.39.90.00', '---Other'], ['56', '7305.90', 'Other'], ['', '7305.90.10.00', '--High pressure conduits'], ['', '7305.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['57', '7306.10', '- Casing and tubing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas'], ['', '7306.10.00.00', '-Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipe'], ['58', '7306.20', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel'], ['', '7306.20.00.00', '-Casing and tubing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas'], ['59', '7306.50', '-Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of other alloy steel'], ['', '7306.50.20.00', '--Welded boiler tubes with internal diameter'], ['', '7306.50.30.00', '--High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.50.50.00', '--Other, with internal diameter exceeding'], ['60', '7306.90', '-Other, with internal diameter of less than 12.5 mm'], ['', '7306.90.91.00', '---Bundy-weld pipes and tubes'], ['', '7306.90.92.00', '---High pressure conduits'], ['', '7306.90.93.00', '---Other, of external diameter measuring less'], ['', '7306.90.94.00', '---Other, of external diameter measuring'], ['', '7306.90.99.00', '---Other'], ['61', '7307.11', '-Cast fittings'], ['', '7307.11.00.00', '--Of non-malleable cast iron'], ['62', '7307.19', '- Other'], ['', '7307.19.00.00', '--Other, of stainless steel'], ['63', '7308.10', '-Bridges and bridge-sections'], ['', '7308.10.10.00', '--Prefabricated modular type joined by shear connectors'], ['', '7308.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['64', '7308.20', '-Towers and lattice masts'], ['', '7308.20.11.00', '---Prefabricated modular type joined by shear'], ['', '7308.20.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7308.20.21.00', '---Prefabricated modular type joined by shear'], ['', '7308.20.29.00', '---Other'], ['65', '7308.30', '- Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering, propping or pit-propping'], ['', '7308.30.00.00', '-Doors, windows and their frames and thres'], ['66', '7308.40', '-Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering, propping or pit-propping'], ['', '7308.40.10.00', '--Prefabricated modular type joined by shear connectors'], ['', '7308.40.90.00', '--Other'], ['67', '7308.90', '- - Frameworks for workshop and store-house'], ['', '7308.90.10.00', '--Frameworks for workshop and store-house'], ['', '7308.90.20.00', '--Other, prefabricated modular type joined by'], ['', '7308.90.30.00', '--Corrugated, curved or bent galvanized plate'], ['', '7308.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['68', '7310.10', '- - For transporting or coagulating latex'], ['', '7310.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['69', '7310.21', '- - - Of a capacity of 1 1'], ['', '7310.21.11.00', '----Of iron or steel casting in the rough'], ['', '7310.21.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7310.21.91.00', '----Of iron or steel casting in the rough'], ['', '7310.21.99.00', '----Other'], ['70', '7310.29', '- - - Of a capacity of 1 l'], ['', '7310.29.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7310.29.99.00', '----Other'], ['71', '7311.00', '- Seamless steel cylinders, except for LPG'], ['', '7311.00.91.00', '--Of a capacity of less than 30 l'], ['', '7311.00.92.00', '--Of a capacity of 30 l or more but less than'], ['', '7311.00.99.00', '--Other'], ['72', '7312.10', '- Stranded wire, ropes and cables'], ['', '7312.10.10.00', '--Locked coil, flattened strands and non'], ['', '7312.10.20.00', '--Plated or coated with brass, and of'], ['', '7312.10.30.00', '--Stranded wire of diameter of more than 64 mm'], ['', '7312.10.40.00', '--Stranded wire of diameter of less than 3 mm'], ['', '7312.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['73', '7312.90', '- Other'], ['', '7312.90.00.00', '-Other'], ['74', '7313.00', 'Barbed wire of iron or steel; twisted hoop or single flat wire'], ['', '7313.00.00.00', 'Barbed wire of iron or steel; twisted hoop or'], ['75', '7314.13', '- - Other endless bands for machinery'], ['', '7314.13.00.00', '--Other endless bands for machinery'], ['76', '7314.20', '- Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the intersection, of wire'], ['', '7314.20.00.00', '-Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the'], ['77', '7314.31', '- - Plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7314.31.00.00', '--Plated or coated with zinc'], ['78', '7314.39', '- - Other'], ['', '7314.39.00.00', '--Other'], ['79', '7314.41', '- - Plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7314.41.00.00', '--Plated or coated with zinc'], ['80', '7314.42', '- - Coated with plastics'], ['', '7314.42.00.00', '--Coated with plastics'], ['81', '7314.49', '- - Other'], ['', '7314.49.00.00', '--Other'], ['82', '7314.50', '- Expanded metal'], ['', '7314.50.00.00', '-Expanded metal'], ['83', '7315.81', '- - Stud-link'], ['', '7315.81.00.00', '--Stud-link'], ['84', '7315.82', '- - Other, welded link'], ['', '7315.82.00.00', '--Other, welded link'], ['85', '7315.89', '- - Other'], ['', '7315.89.11.00', '----Chain for bicycles'], ['', '7315.89.12.00', '----Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '7315.89.21.00', '----Chain for bicycles'], ['', '7315.89.22.00', '----Chain for motorcycles'], ['', '7317.00.40.00', '-Hob nails for footwear, ring nails'], ['', '7317.00.50.00', '-Hooknails'], ['', '7317.00.60.00', '-Corrugated nails, drawing pins and tacks'], ['', '7317.00.90.00', '-Other'], ['86', '7318.11', '- - Coach screws'], ['', '7318.11.00.00', '--Coach screws'], ['87', '7318.12', '- - Other wood screws'], ['', '7318.12.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.12.90.00', '---Other'], ['88', '7318.13', '- - Screw hooks and screw rings'], ['', '7318.13.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.13.90.00', '---Other'], ['89', '7318.14', '- - Self-tapping screws'], ['', '7318.14.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.14.90.00', '---Other'], ['90', '7318.15', '- - Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their nuts or washers'], ['', '7318.15.11.00', '----Screws for metal'], ['', '7318.15.12.00', '----Bolts for metal, with or without nuts'], ['', '7318.15.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7318.15.91.00', '----Screws for metal'], ['', '7318.15.92.00', '----Bolts for metal, with or without nuts'], ['', '7318.15.99.00', '----Other'], ['91', '7318.16', '- - Nuts'], ['', '7318.16.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.16.90.00', '---Other'], ['92', '7318.19', '- - Other'], ['', '7318.19.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.19.90.00', '---Other'], ['93', '7318.21', '- - Spring washers and other lock washers'], ['', '7318.21.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.21.90.00', '---Other'], ['94', '7318.22', '- - Other washers'], ['', '7318.22.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.22.90.00', '---Other'], ['95', '7318.23', '- - Rivets'], ['', '7318.23.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.23.90.00', '---Other'], ['96', '7318.24', '- - Cotters and cotter-pins'], ['', '7318.24.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.24.90.00', '---Other'], ['97', '7318.29', '- - Other'], ['', '7318.29.10.00', '---Of an external diameter not exceeding'], ['', '7318.29.90.00', '---Other'], ['98', '7319.20', '- Safety pins'], ['', '7319.20.00.00', '-Safety pins'], ['99', '7319.30', '- Other pins'], ['', '7319.30.00.00', '-Other pins'], ['', '7320.10.20.00', '--For earth moving machinery'], ['', '7320.10.30.00', '--Coupling springs for railway rolling stock'], ['', '7320.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['', '7320.20.20.00', '--For earth moving machinery'], ['', '7320.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['100', '7323.10', '- Iron or steel wool; pot scourers and scouring or polishing pads, gloves and the\nlike'], ['', '7323.10.00.00', '-Iron or steel wool; pot scourers and scouring'], ['101', '7323.91', '- - Of cast iron, not enameled'], ['', '7323.91.10.00', '---Kitchenware'], ['', '7323.91.90.00', '---Other'], ['102', '7323.92', '- - Of cast iron, enameled'], ['', '7323.92.00.00', '--Of cast iron, enameled'], ['103', '7323.93', '- - Of stainless steel'], ['', '7323.93.90.00', '---Other'], ['104', '7323.99', '- - Other'], ['', '7323.99.10.00', '---Kitchenware'], ['', '7323.99.90.00', '---Other'], ['105', '7324.10', '- Sinks and wash basins, of stainless steel'], ['', '7324.10.00.00', '-Sinks and wash basins, of stainless steel'], ['', '7324.90.20.00', '--Bedpans, urinals (portable type) and'], ['', '7324.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['106', '7326.11', '- - Grinding balls and similar articles for mills'], ['', '7326.11.00.00', '--Grinding balls and similar articles for'], ['107', '7326.20', '- Articles of iron or steel wire'], ['', '7326.20.10.00', '--For manufacturing tyre hoop'], ['', '7326.20.20.00', '--Rat traps'], ['', '7326.20.30.00', '--For the manufacturing of articles other'], ['', '7326.20.40.00', '--Gabions and mattresses of PVC coated steel'], ['', '7326.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['108', '8433.52', '- - Other threshing machinery'], ['', '8433.52.00.00', '--Other threshing machinery'], ['', '8437.80.20.00', '--Rice hullers and cone type rice mills, not'], ['', '8437.80.30.00', '--Industrial type coffee and corn mills'], ['', '8437.80.40.00', '--Industrial type coffee and corn mills, not'], ['', '8437.80.51.00', '---Polishing machines for rice, sifting and'], ['', '8437.80.59.00', '---Other'], ['', '8437.80.61.00', '---Polishing machines for rice, sifting and'], ['', '8437.80.69.00', '---Other'], ['109', '8701.10', '- Pedestrian controlled tractors'], ['', '8701.10.11.00', '---Two-wheeled agricultural tractors'], ['', '8701.10.12.00', '---Other two-wheeled tractors'], ['', '8701.10.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '8701.10.21.00', '---Two-wheeled agricultural tractors'], ['', '8701.10.22.00', '---Other two-wheeled tractors'], ['', '8701.10.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '8703.23.31.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.32.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.33.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.34.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.41.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '8703.23.42.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.43.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '8703.23.44.00', '-----Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['110', '8711.10', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder'], ['', '8711.10.31.00', '---Motor scooters'], ['', '8711.10.32.00', '---Other motor cycles, with or without'], ['', '8711.10.39.00', '---Other'], ['111', '8711.20', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder'], ['', '8711.20.10.90', '---Other'], ['', '8711.20.20.90', '---Other'], ['', '8711.20.44.00', '---Motor scooters'], ['', '8711.20.45.00', '---Other motor cycles, with or without'], ['', '8711.20.46.00', '---Other'], ['', '8711.20.47.00', '---Motor scooters'], ['', '8711.20.48.00', '---Other motor cycles, with or without'], ['', '8711.20.49.00', '---Other'], ['', '8711.20.51.00', '---Motor scooters'], ['', '8711.20.52.00', '---Other motor cycles, with or without'], ['', '8711.20.53.00', '---Other'], ['', '8711.20.54.00', '---Motor scooters'], ['', '8711.20.55.00', '---Other motor cycles, with or without'], ['', '8711.20.56.00', '---Other']]
APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%   Korea:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0102.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0102902000', 'Beef cattle'], ['2', '0201.10', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['', '0201100000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['3', '0201.20', '- Other cuts with bone in'], ['', '0201200000', 'Other cuts with bone in'], ['4', '0201.30', '- Boneless'], ['', '0201300000', 'Boneless'], ['5', '0202.10', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['', '0202100000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['6', '0203.11', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['', '0203110000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['7', '0203.12', '-Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['', '0203120000', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['8', '0203.21', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['', '0203210000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['9', '0203.22', '-Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['', '0203220000', 'Hams,shoulders and cuts thereof,with bone in'], ['10', '0206.29', '-Other'], ['', '0206291000', 'Tails'], ['', '0206292000', 'Feet'], ['', '0206299000', 'Other'], ['11', '0206.30', '- Of swine, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0206300000', 'Of swine,fresh or chilled'], ['12', '0206.41', '-Livers'], ['', '0206410000', 'Livers'], ['13', '0206.49', '-Other'], ['', '0206491000', 'Feet'], ['', '0206499000', 'Other'], ['14', '0206.80', '- Other, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0206800000', 'Other,fresh or chilled'], ['15', '0206.90', '- Other, frozen'], ['', '0206900000', 'Other,frozen'], ['16', '0207.11', '-Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0207111000', 'Weighing not more than 550g'], ['', '0207119000', 'Other'], ['17', '0207.12', '-Not cut in pieces, frozen'], ['', '0207121000', 'Weighing not more than 550g'], ['', '0207129000', 'Other'], ['18', '0207.13', 'Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0207132010', 'Liver'], ['19', '0207.32', '-Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled:'], ['', '0207320000', 'Not cut in pieces,fresh or chilled'], ['20', '0207.33', '-Not cut in pieces, frozen:'], ['', '0207330000', 'Not cut in pieces,frozen'], ['21', '0207.35', '-Other, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0207351000', 'Cuts'], ['22', '0210.11', '-Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['', '0210110000', 'Hams,shoulders and cuts thereof,with bone in'], ['23', '0210.12', '-Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof'], ['', '0210120000', 'Bellies(streaky) and cuts thereof'], ['24', '0210.19', '-Other:'], ['', '0210190000', 'Other'], ['25', '0301.10', '- Ornamental fish:'], ['', '0301102000', 'Tropical fish'], ['26', '0301.92', '-Eels (Anguilla spp.)'], ['', '0301929000', 'Other'], ['27', '0302.21', '-Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides, Hippoglossus'], ['', '0302210000', 'Halibut(Reinhardtius hippoglossoides,Hippoglossus hippoglossus,Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)'], ['28', '0302.34', '-Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['', '0302340000', 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)'], ['29', '0303.74', '-Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus,'], ['', '0303740000', 'Mackerel(Scomber scombrus,Scomber australasicus,Scomber japonicus)'], ['30', '0305.59', '-Other:'], ['', '0305592000', 'Anchovy'], ['31', '0306.14', '-Crabs'], ['', '0306143000', 'Blue crab'], ['', '0306149000', 'Other'], ['32', '0306.23', 'Shrimps and prawns'], ['', '0306232000', 'Dried'], ['33', '0306.24', '-Crabs:'], ['', '0306241010', 'Blue crab'], ['', '0306241020', 'Snow crab'], ['34', '0307.41', '-Live, fresh or chilled:'], ['', '0307412000', 'Squid'], ['35', '030749', 'Other'], ['', '0307491020', 'Squid'], ['', '0307492000', 'Salted or in brine'], ['', '0307493000', 'Dried'], ['36', '0307.91', '-Live, fresh or chilled:'], ['', '0307911200', 'Abalone'], ['37', '0401.10', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1%'], ['', '0401100000', 'Of a fat content,by weight,not exceeding 1%'], ['38', '0401.20', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1% but not exceeding 6%'], ['', '0401200000', 'Of a fat content,by weight,exceeding 1% but not exceeding 6%'], ['39', '0401.30', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6%'], ['', '0401301000', 'Frozen cream'], ['', '0401309000', 'Other'], ['40', '0402.10', '- In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, not'], ['', '', 'exceeding 1.5%'], ['', '0402101010', 'Skim milk powder'], ['', '0402101090', 'Other'], ['', '0402109000', 'Other'], ['41', '0402.21', '-Not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter:'], ['', '0402211000', 'Whole milk powder'], ['', '0402219000', 'Other'], ['42', '0402.29', '-Other:'], ['', '0402290000', 'Other'], ['43', '0402.91', '-Not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter'], ['', '0402911000', 'Evaporated milk'], ['', '0402919000', 'Other'], ['44', '0402.99', '-Other'], ['', '0402991000', 'Sweetened evaporated milk'], ['', '0402999000', 'Other'], ['45', '0403.10', '- Yogurt'], ['', '0403101000', 'Fluid'], ['', '0403102000', 'Frozen'], ['', '0403109000', 'Other'], ['46', '0403.90', '- Other'], ['', '0403901000', 'Butter milk'], ['47', '0405.10', '- Butter'], ['', '0405100000', '1. Butter'], ['48', '0405.90', '- Other'], ['', '0405900000', '3. Other'], ['49', '0406.20', '- Grated or powdered cheese, of all kinds'], ['', '0406200000', 'Grated or powdered cheese,of all kinds'], ['50', '0406.30', '- Processed cheese, not grated or powdered'], ['', '0406300000', 'Processed cheese,not grated or powdered'], ['51', '0407.00', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['', '0407001010', 'Pure-bred breeding eggs'], ['52', '0408.99', '-Other'], ['', '0408991000', 'Of fowls of the species gallus domesticus'], ['53', '0409.00', 'Natural honey'], ['', '0409000000', 'Natural honey'], ['54', '0507.90', '- Other'], ['', '0507901110', 'In whole'], ['', '0507901190', 'Other'], ['', '0507901200', 'Antlers'], ['55', '0603.10', '- Fresh'], ['', '0603101000', 'Carnations'], ['', '0603102000', 'Chrysanthemums'], ['', '0603106000', 'Roses'], ['', '0603107000', 'Cymbidiums'], ['56', '0701.10', '- Seed'], ['', '0701100000', '1. Seed'], ['57', '0701.90', '- Other'], ['', '0701900000', '2. Other'], ['58', '0712.90', '- Other vegetables; mixture of vegetables'], ['', '0712902010', '(1) Bracken'], ['', '0712902091', '(a) Sweet corn for seeds'], ['', '0712902092', '(b) Sweet coen,excluding those for seeds'], ['59', '0713.31', '-Beans of the species Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper or Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek'], ['', '0713311000', 'For seed'], ['', '0713319000', 'Other'], ['60', '0713.32', '-Small red (Adzuki) beans (Phaseolus or Vigna angularis)'], ['', '0713321000', 'For seed'], ['', '0713329000', 'Other'], ['61', '0713.39', '-Other'], ['', '0713390000', 'Other'], ['62', '0714.10', '1. Manioc (cassava)'], ['', '0714102020', '(2) Pellets'], ['63', '0714.20', '- Sweet potatoes'], ['', '0714201000', 'A. Fresh'], ['', '0714202000', 'B. Dried'], ['', '0714203000', 'C. Chilled'], ['', '0714209000', 'E. Other'], ['64', '0802.31', '-In shell'], ['', '0802310000', 'In shell'], ['65', '0802.32', '-Shelled'], ['', '0802320000', 'Shelled'], ['66', '0802.40', '- Chestnuts (Castanea spp.)'], ['', '0802401000', 'In shell'], ['', '0802402000', 'Shelled'], ['67', '0802.90', '- Other'], ['', '0802901010', 'In shell'], ['', '0802901020', 'Shelled'], ['68', '0804.10', '- Dates'], ['', '0804100000', '1. Dates'], ['69', '0804.50', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens'], ['', '0804501000', 'Guavas'], ['', '0804502000', 'Mangoes'], ['', '0804503000', 'Mangosteens'], ['70', '0806.10', '- Fresh'], ['', '0806100000', '1. Fresh'], ['71', '0807.20', '- Papaws (papayas)'], ['', '0807200000', '2. Papaws (papayas)'], ['72', '0809.30', '- Peaches, including nectarines'], ['', '0809300000', '3. Peaches,including nectarines'], ['73', '0810.60', '- Durians'], ['', '0810600000', 'Durians'], ['74', '0810.90', '- Other'], ['', '0810902000', 'Sweet persimmons'], ['', '0810903000', 'Jujubes'], ['', '0810909000', 'Other'], ['75', '0811.90', '- Other'], ['', '0811901000', 'Chestnuts'], ['', '0811902000', 'Jujubes'], ['', '0811903000', 'Pine-nuts'], ['', '0811909000', 'Other'], ['75', '0813.30', '- Apples'], ['', '0813300000', '3. Apples'], ['77', '0813.40', '- Other fruit'], ['', '0813401000', 'Persimmons'], ['', '0813402000', 'Jujubes'], ['', '0813409000', 'Other'], ['78', '0910.10', '- Ginger'], ['', '0910100000', '1. Ginger'], ['79', '1008.10', '- Buckwheat'], ['', '1008100000', 'Buckwheat'], ['80', '1103.13', '-Of maize (corn)'], ['', '1103130000', 'Of maize(corn)'], ['81', '1104.23', '-Of maize (corn)'], ['', '1104230000', 'Of maize(corn)'], ['82', '1105.10', '- Flour, meal and powder'], ['', '1105100000', 'Flour, meal and powder'], ['83', '1105.20', '- Flakes, granules and pellets'], ['', '1105200000', 'Flakes,granules and pellets'], ['84', '1108.11', '-Wheat starch'], ['', '1108110000', 'Wheat starch'], ['85', '1108.12', '-Maize (corn) starch'], ['', '1108120000', 'Maize (corn) starch'], ['86', '1108.13', '-Potato starch'], ['', '1108130000', 'Potato starch'], ['87', '1108.19', '-Other starches'], ['', '1108191000', 'Of sweet potato'], ['88', '1201.00', 'Soya beans, whether or not broken'], ['', '1201009000', 'Other'], ['89', '1202.10', '- In shell'], ['', '1202100000', 'In shell'], ['90', '1202.20', '- Shelled, whether or not broken'], ['', '1202200000', 'Shelled,whether or not broken'], ['91', '1207.40', '- Sesamum seeds'], ['', '1207400000', '4. Sesamum seeds'], ['92', '1211.20', '- Ginseng roots'], ['', '1211201100', 'Raw ginseng'], ['', '1211201210', 'Major roots'], ['', '1211201220', 'Ginseng tail'], ['', '1211201240', 'Minor root'], ['', '1211201310', 'Major root'], ['', '1211201320', 'Ginseng tail'], ['', '1211201330', 'Minor root'], ['', '1211202210', 'Powder'], ['', '1211202220', 'Tablet or capsule'], ['', '1211202290', 'Other'], ['', '1211209100', 'Leaves and stems of ginseng'], ['', '1211209200', 'Ginseng seed'], ['', '1211209900', 'Other'], ['93', '1212.20', '- Seaweeds and other algae'], ['', '1212201010', '(1) Dried'], ['', '1212202010', '(1) Dried'], ['', '1212202020', '(2) Salted'], ['', '1212203010', '(1) Dried'], ['', '1212205010', '(1) Salted'], ['', '1212205090', '(4) Other'], ['', '1212209099', '(b) Other'], ['94', '1302.19', '-Other'], ['', '1302191210', 'Red ginseng extract'], ['', '1302191220', 'Red ginseng extract powder'], ['', '1302191290', 'Other'], ['', '1302191900', 'Other'], ['95', '1515.50', '- Sesame oil and its fractions'], ['', '1515500000', '5. Sesame oil and its fractions'], ['96', '1516.20', '- Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions'], ['', '1516201040', 'Perilla oil and its fraction'], ['97', '1601.00', 'Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal or blood; food preparations\nbased on these products'], ['', '1601001000', 'Sausages'], ['', '1601009000', 'Other'], ['98', '1602.10', '- Homogenised preparations'], ['', '1602100000', 'Homogenised preparations'], ['99', '1602.32', '-Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus'], ['', '1602321010', 'Samge-tangⓚ'], ['100', '1602.39', '-Other'], ['', '1602391000', 'In airtight containers'], ['', '1602399000', 'Other'], ['101', '1602.41', '-Hams and cuts thereof'], ['', '1602411000', 'In airtight containers'], ['', '1602419000', 'Other'], ['102', '1602.42', '-Shoulders and cuts thereof'], ['', '1602421000', 'In airtight containers'], ['', '1602429000', 'Other'], ['103', '1602.50', '- Of bovine animals'], ['', '1602501000', 'In airtight containers'], ['', '1602509000', 'Other'], ['104', '1603.00', 'Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic\ninvertebrates'], ['', '1603001000', 'Meat extracts'], ['', '1603002000', 'Meat juices'], ['105', '1604.13', '-Sardines, sardinella and brisling or sprats'], ['', '1604131000', 'In airtight containers'], ['106', '1605.90', '- Other'], ['', '1605902010', 'Squid'], ['', '1605909010', 'Seasoned squid'], ['107', '1701.91', '-Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['', '1701910000', 'Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['108', '1701.99', '-Other'], ['', '1701990000', 'Other'], ['109', '1702.90', '- Other, including invert sugar and other sugar and sugar syrup blends containing\nin the dry state 50% by weight of fructose'], ['', '1702901000', 'A. Artificial honey'], ['110', '1806.90', '- Other'], ['', '1806903091', 'Rice in grain form'], ['111', '1901.10', '- Preparations for infant use, put up for retail sale'], ['', '1901101010', 'Prepared dry milk'], ['', '1901101090', 'Other'], ['112', '1901.90', '- Other'], ['', '1901901000', 'A. Malt extract'], ['113', '1904.90', '- Other'], ['', '1904901000', 'Rice in grain form,not containing cocoa'], ['114', '2001.90', '- Other'], ['', '2001901000', 'A. Fruit and nuts'], ['', '2001909060', 'Garlic'], ['', '2001909070', 'Onions'], ['115', '2005.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables'], ['', '2005901000', 'Kim-chiⓚ'], ['116', '2006.00', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of plants, preserved by sugar\n(drained, glace or crystallized)'], ['', '2006001000', "1. Marrons glac'es"], ['', '2006002000', '2. Pineapples'], ['117', '2007.99', '-Other'], ['', '2007991000', 'Jams,fruit jellies and marmalades'], ['118', '2008.11', '-Ground-nuts'], ['', '2008119000', 'Other'], ['119', '2008.20', '- Pineapples'], ['', '2008200000', 'Pineapples'], ['120', '2008.30', '- Citrus fruit'], ['', '2008300000', 'Citrus fruit'], ['121', '2008.40', '- Pears'], ['', '2008400000', 'Pears'], ['122', '2008.92', '-Mixtures'], ['', '2008921010', 'In airtight containers, added sugar'], ['', '2008921090', 'Other'], ['', '2008929000', 'Other'], ['123', '2008.99', '-Other'], ['', '2008991000', 'Grapes'], ['', '2008993000', 'Popcorn'], ['', '2008999000', 'Other'], ['124', '2009.41', '-Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '2009410000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['125', '2009.80', '- Juice of any other single fruit or vegetable'], ['', '2009801010', 'Peach juice'], ['', '2009801090', 'Other'], ['126', '2103.90', '- Other'], ['', '2103909030', 'Mixed seasonings'], ['', '2103909090', 'Other'], ['127', '2104.20', '- Homogenised composite food preparations'], ['', '2104200000', 'Homogenised composite food prepartions'], ['128', '2106.90', '- Other'], ['', '2106903021', 'Red ginseng tea'], ['', '2106903029', 'Other'], ['129', '2207.10', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80% or higher'], ['', '2207109010', 'Fermented alcohol for manufacture of liquors'], ['130', '2309.90', '- Other'], ['', '2309902010', 'Chiefly on the basis of inorganic substances or minerals (excluding chiefly on the\nbasis of micro-minerals)'], ['', '2309902020', 'Chiefly on the basis of flavourings'], ['', '2309902099', 'Other'], ['', '2309909000', 'Other'], ['131', '3301.90', '- Other'], ['', '3301904520', 'Of red ginseng'], ['132', '3505.10', 'Dextrins and other modified starches'], ['', '3505104000', 'Pre-gelatinised or swelling starch'], ['', '3505105000', 'Etherified or esterified starches'], ['', '3505109000', 'Other'], ['133', '4410.31', '-Unworked or not further worked than sanded'], ['', '4410310000', 'Unworked or not further worked than sanded'], ['134', '4411.11', '-Not mechanically worked or surface covered'], ['', '4411110000', 'Not mechanically worked or surface covered'], ['135', '4411.19', '-Other'], ['', '4411191010', 'Floor board'], ['136', '4411.29', '-Other'], ['', '4411291010', 'Floor board'], ['137', '4412.13', '-With at least one outer ply of tropical woods specified in subheading note 1 to\nthis chapter'], ['', '4412134000', 'Of a thickness less than 12㎜ but not less than 6㎜'], ['', '4412135000', 'Of a thickness less than 15㎜ but not less than 12㎜'], ['138', '4412.29', '-Other'], ['', '4412292010', 'Floor board'], ['139', '4412.99', '-Other'], ['', '4412992010', 'Floor board']]
APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%   Lao PDR:   
[['', 'NO.', '', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['', '1', '', '0201.10', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses.'], ['', '2', '', '0201.20', '- Other cuts with bone in.'], ['', '3', '', '0201.30', '- Boneless.'], ['', '4', '', '0202.10', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses.'], ['', '5', '', '0202.20', '- Other cuts with bone in.'], ['', '6', '', '0202.30', '- Boneless.'], ['', '7', '', '0203.11', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses.'], ['', '8', '', '0203.12', '-Harms, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in.'], ['', '9', '', '0203.19', '-Other.'], ['', '10', '', '0203.21', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses.'], ['', '11', '', '0203.22', '-Harms, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in.'], ['', '12', '', '0203.29', '-Other.'], ['', '13', '', '0207.11', 'Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled'], ['', '14', '', '0207.12', 'Not cut in pieces, frozen'], ['', '15', '', '0207.35', 'Other, fresh or chilled'], ['', '16', '', '0207.36', 'Other, frozen'], ['', '17', '', '0210.11', '-Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in.'], ['', '18', '', '0210.12', '-Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof.'], ['', '19', '', '0210.19', '-Other.'], ['', '20', '', '0210.20', '- Meat of bovine animals.'], ['', '21', '', '0210.99', 'Other'], ['', '22', '', '0301.91', '-Fresh water fish.'], ['', '23', '', '0407.00', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['', '24', '', '0603.10', '- Fresh'], ['', '25', '', '0603.90', '- Other'], ['', '26', '', '0702.00', 'Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.'], ['', '27', '', '0703.10', '- Onions and shallots.'], ['', '28', '', '0703.90', '- Leeks and other alliaceous vegetables.'], ['', '29', '', '0704.10', '- Cauliflowers and headed broccoli.'], ['', '30', '', '0704.90', '- Other'], ['', '31', '', '0705.11', 'Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce)'], ['', '32', '', '0707.00', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled.'], ['', '33', '', '0708.20', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)'], ['', '34', '', '0708.90', '- Other leguminous vegetables.'], ['', '35', '', '0709.30', '- Aubergines (egg - plants).'], ['', '36', '', '0709.51', '-Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus.'], ['', '37', '', '0709.60', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta.'], ['', '38', '', '0709.90', '- Other.'], ['', '39', '', '0710.22', '-Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.).'], ['', '40', '', '0710.29', '-Other.'], ['', '41', '', '0710.40', '- Sweet corn.'], ['', '42', '', '0710.80', '- Other vegetables.'], ['', '43', '', '0710.90', '- Mixtures of vegetables.'], ['', '44', '', '0711.20', 'Olives'], ['', '45', '', '0711.40', '- Cucumbers and gherkins.'], ['', '46', '', '0711.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables.'], ['', '47', '', '0712.20', '- Onions.'], ['', '48', '', '0712.31', 'Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus'], ['', '49', '', '0712.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables.'], ['', '50', '', '0713.31', 'Beans of the species Vigna Mungo (L) Hepper or Vigna Radiata (L) Wilczek'], ['', '51', '', '0713.90', '- Other.'], ['', '52', '', '0714.10', '- Manioc (Cassava).'], ['', '53', '', '0714.20', '- Sweet potatoes.'], ['', '54', '', '0714.90', '- Other.'], ['', '55', '', '0802.90', 'Other'], ['', '56', '', '0804.30', '- Pineapples.'], ['', '57', '', '0804.50', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens.'], ['', '58', '', '0805.10', '- Oranges.'], ['', '59', '', '0805.20', '- Mandarins (including tangerines and satumas);'], ['', '60', '', '0805.50', '- Lemons (Citrus limons, citurs limonum) and limes'], ['', '61', '', '0805.90', '- Other.'], ['', '62', '', '0807.11', 'Watermelons'], ['', '63', '', '0807.20', '- Papaws (papaya).'], ['', '64', '', '0810.90', '- Other'], ['', '65', '', '0811.90', '- Other'], ['', '66', '', '0812.90', '- Other'], ['', '67', '', '0813.40', '- Other fruit.'], ['', '68', '', '0813.50', '- Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this Chapter.'], ['', '69', '', '0901.11', '-Not decaffeinated'], ['', '70', '', '0901.12', '-Decaffeinated'], ['', '71', '', '0901.21', '-Not decaffeinated'], ['', '72', '', '0901.22', '-Decaffeinated'], ['', '73', '', '0901.90', '- Other'], ['74', None, None, '0902.10', '- Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packings of a content not exceeding\n3kg'], ['', '75', '', '0902.20', '- Other green tea (not fermented)'], ['76', None, None, '0902.30', '- Black tea (fermented) and partly fermented tea, in immediate packings of a\ncontent not exceeding 3 kg'], ['', '77', '', '0902.40', '- Other black tea (fermented) and other partly fermented tea'], ['', '78', '', '1207.99', '-Other'], ['', '79', '', '1602.10', '- Homogenised preparations'], ['', '80', '', '1602.20', '- Of liver of any animal'], ['', '81', '', '1602.31', '-Of turkeys'], ['', '82', '', '1602.32', '-Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus'], ['', '83', '', '1602.39', '-Other'], ['', '84', '', '1602.41', '-Hams and cuts thereof'], ['', '85', '', '1602.42', '-Shoulders and cuts thereof'], ['', '86', '', '1602.49', '-Other, including mixtures'], ['', '87', '', '1602.50', '- Of bovine animals'], ['', '88', '', '1602.90', '- Other, including preparations of blood of any animal'], ['', '89', '', '1701.11', '- Cane sugar'], ['', '90', '', '1701.12', '- Beet sugar'], ['', '91', '', '1701.99', '- Other'], ['92', None, None, '1904.10', '- Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal\nproducts'], ['', '93', '', '1904.90', '- Other'], ['', '94', '', '2001.10', '- Cucumbers and gherkins'], ['', '95', '', '2001.90', '- Other'], ['', '96', '', '2002.10', '- Tomatoes, whole or in pieces'], ['', '97', '', '2002.90', '- Other'], ['', '98', '', '2003.10', '- Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus'], ['', '99', '', '2003.90', '- Other'], ['', '100', '', '2004.10', '- Potatoes'], ['', '101', '', '2004.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables'], ['', '102', '', '2005.10', '- Homogenised vegetables'], ['', '103', '', '2005.20', '- Potatoes'], ['', '104', '', '2005.40', '- Peas (Pisum sativum)'], ['', '105', '', '2005.51', '- Beans, shelled'], ['', '106', '', '2005.59', '- Other'], ['', '107', '', '2005.60', '- Asparagus'], ['', '108', '', '2005.70', '- Olives'], ['', '109', '', '2005.80', '- Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata)'], ['', '110', '', '2005.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables'], ['', '111', '', '2007.10', '- Homogenised preparations'], ['', '112', '', '2007.99', '- Other'], ['', '113', '', '2008.11', '- Ground-nuts'], ['', '114', '', '2008.19', '- Other, including mixtures'], ['', '115', '', '2008.20', '- Pineapples'], ['', '116', '', '2008.30', '- Citrus fruit'], ['', '117', '', '2008.40', '- Pears'], ['', '118', '', '2008.50', '- Apricots'], ['', '119', '', '2008.60', '- Cherries'], ['', '120', '', '2008.70', '- Peaches, including nectarines'], ['', '121', '', '2008.80', '- Strawberries'], ['', '122', '', '2008.91', '- Palm hearts'], ['', '123', '', '2008.92', '- Mixtures'], ['', '124', '', '2008.99', '- Other'], ['', '125', '', '2009.21', '- Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '126', '', '2009.29', '- Other'], ['', '127', '', '2009.50', '- Tomato juice'], ['', '128', '', '2009.71', '- Of a Brix value not exceeding 20'], ['', '129', '', '2009.79', '- Other'], ['', '130', '', '2009.80', '- Juice of any other single fruit or vegetable'], ['', '131', '', '2009.90', '- Mixtures of juices'], ['', '132', '', '2208.90', '- Other'], ['', '133', '', '8408.10', '- Marine propulsion engines'], ['', '134', '', '8408.20', '- Engines of a kind used for the propulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['', '135', '', '8408.90', '- Other engines'], ['', '136', '', '8509.10', '- Vacuum cleaners, including dry and wet vacuum cleaners'], ['', '137', '', '8509.20', '- Floor polishers'], ['', '138', '', '8509.30', '- Kitchen waste disposers'], ['', '139', '', '8509.40', '- Food grinders or mixers; fruit or vegetable juice extractors'], ['', '140', '', '8509.80', '- Other appliances'], ['', '141', '', '8509.90', '- Parts'], ['', '142', '', '8708.31', '- Mounted brake linings'], ['', '143', '', '8708.39', '- Other'], ['', '144', '', '8708.40', '- Gear boxes'], ['145', None, None, '8708.50', '- Drive-axles with differential, whether or not provided with other\ntransmission components'], ['', '146', '', '8708.60', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof'], ['', '147', '', '8708.70', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof'], ['', '148', '', '8708.80', '- Suspension shock-absorbers'], ['', '149', '', '8708.91', '- Radiators'], ['', '150', '', '8708.92', '- Silencers and exhaust pipes'], ['', '151', '', '8708.93', '- Clutches and parts thereof'], ['', '152', '', '8708.94', '- Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes'], ['', '153', '', '8708.99', '- Other'], ['', '154', '', '8716.10', '- Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan type, for housing or camping'], ['', '155', '', '8716.80', '- Other vehicles']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%   Malaysia:  
[['', 'NO.', '', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['15', None, None, '100610', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['', None, None, '100610100', 'pulut (glutinous rice)'], ['', None, None, '100610900', 'other'], ['16', None, None, '100620', 'Husked or brown rice'], ['', None, None, '100620100', '-pulut (glutinous rice)'], ['', None, None, '100620900', '-other'], ['17', None, None, '100630', 'Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed'], ['', None, None, '100630100', '-pulut (glutinous rice)'], ['', None, None, '100630900', '-other'], ['18', None, None, '100640', 'Broken rice'], ['', None, None, '100640100', '-for animal feeding'], ['', None, None, '100640900', '-other'], ['19', None, None, '252390', 'Other hydraulic cements'], ['', None, None, '252390000', '- Other hydraulic cements'], ['20', None, None, '700312', '-Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting layer'], ['', None, None, '700312990', '-other'], ['21', None, None, '700521', '-Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted), opacified, flashed or merely surface\nground'], ['', None, None, '700521990', 'other'], ['22', None, None, '700530', '- Wired glass'], ['', None, None, '700530900', 'other'], ['23', None, None, '720810', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['', None, None, '720810000', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['24', None, None, '720836', '-Of a thickness exceeding 10mm'], ['', None, None, '720836000', '-Of a thickness exceeding 10mm'], ['25', None, None, '720837', '-Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more but not exceeding 10mm'], ['', None, None, '720837000', '-Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more but not exceeding 10mm'], ['26', None, None, '720838', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but less than 4.75mm'], ['', None, None, '720838000', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but less than 4.75mm'], ['27', None, None, '720839', '-Of a thickness of less than 3mm'], ['', None, None, '720839100', 'Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '720839910', 'of a thickness of 0.17mm or less'], ['', None, None, '720839990', 'Other'], ['28', None, None, '720840', '- Not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['', None, None, '720840000', '-Not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['29', None, None, '720851', '- Of a thickness exceeding 10mm'], ['', None, None, '720851000', '-of a thickness exceeding 10mm'], ['30', None, None, '720852', '- Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more but not exceeding 10mm'], ['', None, None, '720852000', '-of a thickness of 4.75mm or more but not exceeding 10mm'], ['31', None, None, '720853', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but less than 4.75mm'], ['', None, None, '720853000', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more but not less than 4.75mm'], ['32', None, None, '720854', '-Of a thickness of less than 3mm'], ['', None, None, '720854100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '720854910', '-of a thickness of o.170mm or less'], ['', None, None, '720854990', '-Other'], ['33', None, None, '720890', 'Other'], ['', None, None, '720890100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '720890200', '-Corrugated'], ['', None, None, '720890910', '-of a thickness of o.170mm or less'], ['', None, None, '720890990', '-Other'], ['34', None, None, '720915', 'Of a thickness of 3mm or more'], ['', None, None, '720915000', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more'], ['35', None, None, '720916', 'Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['', None, None, '720916000', '-Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['36', None, None, '720917', 'Of a thickness of 0.5mm or more but not exceeding 1mm'], ['', None, None, '720917000', '-Of a thickness of 0.5mm or more but not exceeding 1mm'], ['37', None, None, '720925', 'Of a thickness of 3mm or more'], ['', None, None, '720925000', '-Of a thickness of 3mm or more'], ['38', None, None, '720926', 'Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['', None, None, '720926000', '-Of a thickness exceeding 1mm but less than 3mm'], ['39', None, None, '720927', 'Of a thickness of 0.5mm or more but not exceeding 1mm'], ['', None, None, '720927000', '-Of a thickness of 0.5mm or more but not exceeding 1mm'], ['40', None, None, '720928', 'Of a thickness of less than 0.5mm'], ['', None, None, '720928100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '720928910', '-of a thickness of 0.170mm or less'], ['', None, None, '720928990', '-Other'], ['41', None, None, '720990', '- Other'], ['', None, None, '720990100', '-containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '720990200', '-Corrugated'], ['', None, None, '720990900', '-Other'], ['42', None, None, '721020', 'Plated or coated with lead, including terne-plate'], ['', None, None, '721020100', '-Containing by weight of 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '721020910', '-1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', None, None, '721020920', '-more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['43', None, None, '721041', 'Corrugated'], ['', None, None, '721041100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '721041910', '-1.5 mm of less in thickness'], ['', None, None, '721041990', '-Other'], ['44', None, None, '721050', 'Plated or coated with chromium oxides or with chromium and chromium oxides'], ['', None, None, '721050000', '-Plated or caoted with chromium oxide or with chromium and chromium oxides'], ['45', None, None, '721070', 'Painted, varnished or coated with plastics'], ['', None, None, '721070100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '721070910', '-1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', None, None, '721070920', '-more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['46', None, None, '721090', '- Other'], ['', None, None, '721090100', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', None, None, '721090910', '-1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', None, None, '721090920', '-more than 1.5mm in thickness'], ['47', None, None, '721113', 'Rolled on four faces or in a closed box pass, of a width exceeding 150 mm and a'], ['', None, None, '', 'thickness of not less than 4 mm, not in coils and without patterns in relief'], ['', None, None, '721113110', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon: Universal plates'], ['', None, None, '721113121', '-exceeding 150mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721113129', '-other'], ['', None, None, '721113190', '-other'], ['', None, None, '721113910', '-universal plates'], ['', None, None, '721113921', '-exceeding 150mm but not exceeding 400mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721113929', '-other'], ['', None, None, '721113930', '-bars and rods'], ['', None, None, '721113940', '-corrugated'], ['', None, None, '721113990', '-other'], ['48', None, None, '721119', 'Other'], ['', None, None, '721119111', '-not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721119112', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon: hoop and strip:exceeding 25 mm\nbut not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721119119', '-other'], ['', None, None, '721119190', '-other'], ['', None, None, '721119911', 'not exceeding 25 mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721119912', 'exceeding 25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm in width'], ['', None, None, '721119919', 'other'], ['', None, None, '721119920', 'coils for re-rolling'], ['', None, None, '721119930', 'bars and rods'], ['', None, None, '721119940', 'corrugated'], ['', None, None, '721119991', 'of a thickness of 0.170 mm or less'], ['', None, None, '721119999', 'Other'], ['49', None, None, '870321', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870321210', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870321221', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870321222', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870321310', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870321321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870321322', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870321400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870321921', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870321922', 'old'], ['50', None, None, '870322', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870322210', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870322221', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870322222', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870322321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870322322', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870322400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870322921', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870322922', 'old'], ['51', None, None, '870323', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323221', 'of a cylinder capacity less than1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323222', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323231', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323232', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323233', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323234', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323311', 'Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars): completely\nknocked down: of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323313', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323321', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323322', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323331', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323332', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323333', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323334', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870323912', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323913', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323921', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323922', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323924', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323931', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323932', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323933', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870323934', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['52', None, None, '870324', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870324100', 'Ambulance Four wheel drive vehicles (other than\nmotor cars, station wagons, sports cars, racing cars and motor vehicles of sub-\nheading Nos. 8703.24 910, 8703.24 921 and 8703.24 922)'], ['', None, None, '870324210', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870324221', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870324222', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870324310', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870324321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870324322', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870324400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870324910', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870324921', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870324922', 'old'], ['53', None, None, '870331', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870331210', 'Ambulance Four wheel drive vehicles (other than motor cars, station wagons,\nsports cars, racing cars and motor vehicles of sub-\nheading Nos. 8703.31 910, 8703.31 921 and 8703.31 922):'], ['', None, None, '870331221', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870331222', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870331310', 'Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars): completely\nknocked down'], ['', None, None, '870331321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870331322', 'old'], ['', None, None, '870331400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870331910', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870331921', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870331922', 'old'], ['54', None, None, '870332', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332212', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332213', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332221', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332222', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332231', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332232', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332233', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332311', 'Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars):\ncompletely knocked down: of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332312', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870332331', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800cc'], ['', None, None, '870332332', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332333', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870332911', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800cc'], ['', None, None, '870332912', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332913', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332921', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332922', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332923', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332931', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870332932', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['55', None, None, '870333', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500cc'], ['', None, None, '870333210', 'Ambulance Four wheel drive vehicles (other than motor cars, station wagons,\nsports cars,racing cars and motor vehicles of sub-\nheading Nos. 8703.33 910 to 8703.33 932): completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '870333222', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870333231', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870333232', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870333311', 'of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500cc but less than 3,000'], ['', None, None, '870333312', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870333321', 'new'], ['', None, None, '870333331', 'of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870333332', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870333400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870333910', 'Other'], ['', None, None, '870333922', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870333931', 'of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870333932', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['56', None, None, '870390', '- Other'], ['', None, None, '870390211', 'Four wheel drive vehicles (other than motor cars, station wagons, sports cars,\nracing cars and motor vehicles of subheading Nos.\n8703.90 911 to 8703.90 935): completely knocked down:'], ['', None, None, '870390212', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390213', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390214', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390221', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800cc'], ['', None, None, '870390222', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390223', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390224', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390231', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390232', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390233', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390234', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390235', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390310', 'Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars):\nelectric-powered'], ['', None, None, '870390321', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390322', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390323', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390324', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390331', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390332', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390333', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390334', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390335', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390341', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390342', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390343', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390344', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390345', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390400', 'Motor-homes'], ['', None, None, '870390911', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390912', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390913', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390914', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390921', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390922', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390923', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390924', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390925', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', None, None, '870390931', 'of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390932', 'of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390933', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390934', 'of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', None, None, '870390935', 'of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['57', None, None, '871130', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 250cc but not exceeding 500cc'], ['', None, None, '871130100', 'Sports Bike Motocross'], ['', None, None, '871130200', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '871130310', 'new'], ['', None, None, '871130390', 'other'], ['58', None, None, '871140', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 500cc but not exceeding 800cc'], ['', None, None, '871140200', 'completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '871140310', 'new'], ['', None, None, '871140390', 'other'], ['59', None, None, '871150', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity'], ['', None, None, '', 'exceeding 800cc'], ['', None, None, '871150200', 'Completely knocked down'], ['', None, None, '871150310', 'new'], ['', None, None, '871150390', 'old']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%   Myanmar:  
[['No', 'HS.CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '030211', '-Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss, Oncorhynchus….,'], ['2', '030212', '-Pacific Salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, ..,'], ['3', '030219', '-Other ------'], ['4', '030221', '-Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides, Hippoglossus ,…….'], ['5', '030229', '-Other -------------------'], ['6', '030250', '- Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus), excluding livers ..'], ['7', '030262', '-Haddock (melanogrammus aeglefinus) --------'], ['8', '030264', '-Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber aus..'], ['9', '030265', '-Dogfish and other sharks ----'], ['10', '030266', '-Eels (Anguilla spp.) --------------------'], ['11', '030269', '-Other:'], ['12', '030311', '-Sockeye salmon (red salmon) (Oncorhynchus nerka) -'], ['13', '030319', '-Other ------'], ['14', '030321', '-Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus myk...'], ['15', '030322', '-Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and .. ..'], ['16', '030329', '-Other --------'], ['17', '030345', '-Bluefin tunas (Thunnus thynnus) ---'], ['18', '030346', '-Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii) ----'], ['19', '030360', '- Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus), excluding livers…'], ['20', '030377', '-Sea bass (Dicentrarchus labrax,....'], ['21', '030378', '-Hake (Merluccius spp. Urophycis spp.) ---'], ['22', '030380', '- Livers and roes:'], ['23', '030420', '- Frozen fillets ---------------'], ['24', '030623', '-Shrimps and prawns:'], ['25', '030624', '-Crabs:'], ['26', '030629', '-Other, including flours, meals and pellets of crustaceans…'], ['27', '030739', '-Other:'], ['28', '030799', '-Other:'], ['29', '04.0700', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['30', '040900', 'Natural honey ------'], ['31', '060110', '- Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and rhizomes..'], ['32', '070810', '- Peas (Pisum sativum) ----- -'], ['33', '070820', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.) -----'], ['34', '090210', '- Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packinqs of a content not exceeding 3 kg:'], ['35', '090220', '- Other green tea (not fermented):'], ['36', '1211.30', '- Coca leaf:'], ['37', '1211.90', '- Other:'], ['38', '1515.29', '-Other:'], ['39', '1516.20', '- Vegetable fats and oils and their …'], ['40', '1517.90', '- Other:']]
41 1518.00 - Animal or vegetable fats and oils … 
[['42', '160420', '- Other prepared or preserved fish:'], ['43', '160430', '- Caviar and caviar substitutes:'], ['44', '160510', '- Crab -----------'], ['45', '160530', '- Lobster ----------'], ['46', '160540', '- Other crustaceans --------'], ['47', '190219', '-Other:'], ['48', '190230', '- Other pasta:'], ['49', '200590', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables:'], ['50', '220210', '- Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, …'], ['51', '220410', '- Sparkling wine -----'], ['52', '2302.10', '- Of maize (corn) ------------'], ['53', '240110', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped:'], ['54', '250100', 'Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) and pure sodium chloride, whether\nor not in aqueous solution or containing added anti-caking or free- flowing\nagents; sea water.'], ['55', '292242', '-Glutamic acid and its salts:'], ['56', '3001.10', '- Glands and other organs, dried, whether - -'], ['57', '3001.90', '- Other ----------------'], ['58', '3002.90', '- Other --------------'], ['59', '3003.40', '- Containing alkaloids or derivatives …'], ['60', '3003.90', '- Other:'], ['61', '3004.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives……'], ['62', '3004.20', '- Containing other antibiotics:'], ['63', '3004.32', '-Containing corticosteroid hormones, ..'], ['64', '3004.40', '- Containing alkaloids or derivatives ..'], ['65', '3004.50', '- Other medicaments containing vitamins or.'], ['66', '3004.90', '- Other:'], ['67', '3006.30', '- Opacifying preparations for x-ray …'], ['68', '3302.10', '- Of a kind used in the food or …'], ['69', '3303.00', 'Perfumes and toilet waters------'], ['70', '330491', '-Powders, whether or not compressed'], ['71', '330499', '-Other:'], ['72', '330510', '- Shampoos:'], ['73', '330590', '- Other:'], ['74', '330710', '- Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations ---'], ['75', '3307.20', '- Personal deodorants and antiperspirants..'], ['76', '330741', '-"Agarbatti" and other odoriferous…'], ['77', '340111', '-For toilet use, (including medicated products):'], ['78', '360500', 'Matches, other than pyrotechnic articles of heading 36.04.'], ['79', '360610', '- Liquid or liquefied-gas fuels in containers of a kind used ..'], ['80', '360690', '- Other:'], ['81', '392329', '-Of other plastics:'], ['82', '4008.11', '-Plates, sheets, and strip -----------'], ['83', '4008.19', '-Other ------------------'], ['84', '4008.21', '-Plates, sheets and strip ------------'], ['85', '4008.29', '-Other --------------'], ['86', '4009.11', '-Without fittings ------------------'], ['87', '4009.12', '-With fittings ---------------'], ['88', '4010.31', '-Endless transmission belts of ..'], ['89', '4010.32', '-Endless transmission belts …']]
90 4010.33 -Endless transmission  belts  of … 
[['91', '4010.34', '-Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal'], ['92', '4010.35', '-Endless synchronous belts, of an …'], ['93', '4010.36', '-Endless synchronous belts, of an'], ['94', '4015.90', '- Other:'], ['95', '4016.99', '-Other:'], ['96', '490700', 'Unused postage, revenue or similar stamps of current or new issue in the country\nin which they have, or will have, a recognised face value; stamp-impressed paper;\nbanknotes; cheque forms; stock, share or bond certificates and similar documents\nof title.'], ['97', '520839', '-Other fabrics ----'], ['98', '521132', '-3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill ---'], ['99', '521159', '-Other fabrics -----------'], ['100', '540710', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of nylon or ..'], ['101', '540742', '-Dyed -----------'], ['102', '551419', '-Other woven fabrics -------'], ['103', '560129', '-Other -------------'], ['104', '580110', '- Of wool or fine animal hair:'], ['105', '590190', '- Other:'], ['106', '590699', '-Other:'], ['107', '600240', '- Containing by weight 5% or more of elastomeric…..'], ['108', '600290', '- Other ------------'], ['109', '6307.90', '- Other:'], ['110', '6403.19', '-Other:'], ['111', '640411', '-Sports footwear; tennis shoes, basketball'], ['112', '640419', '-Other ----------------'], ['113', '650590', '- Other:'], ['114', '710820', '- Monetary ------'], ['115', '711890', '- Other:'], ['116', '740811', '-Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension'], ['117', '760711', '-Rolled but not further worked -----'], ['118', '830242', '-Other, suitable for furniture -------'], ['119', '8414.51', '-Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling'], ['120', '8415.10', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or..'], ['121', '8418.21', '-Compression-type ---------------'], ['122', '842810', '- Lifts and skip hoists:'], ['123', '8450.11', '-Fully-automatic machines:'], ['124', '852510', '- Transmission apparatus:'], ['125', '852520', '- Transmission apparatus incorporating reception apparatus: [ITAI/A-049] [ex\nITA1/B-197]'], ['126', '852530', '- Television cameras:'], ['127', '852540', '- Still image video cameras and other video camera recorders; digital cameras:'], ['128', '852610', '- Radar apparatus:'], ['129', '852691', '-Radio navigational aid apparatus:'], ['130', '852712', '-Pocket-size radio cassette-players ------'], ['131', '852713', '-Other apparatus combined with sound recording or …'], ['132', '852719', '-Other:'], ['133', '852721', '-Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['134', '852729', '-Other:'], ['135', '852731', '-Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus:'], ['136', '852732', '-Not combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus but combined with a']]
clock -- 
[['137', '852739', '-Other:'], ['138', '852790', '- Other:'], ['139', '852812', '-Colour:'], ['140', '852813', '-Black and white or other monochrome -----'], ['141', '852821', '-Colour:'], ['142', '852822', '-Black and white or other monochrome -----'], ['143', '852830', '- Video projectors:'], ['144', '852910', '- Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith:'], ['145', '852990', '- Other:'], ['146', '8544.19', '- Other:'], ['147', '8544.20', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric'], ['148', '8544.30', '- Ignition wiring sets and other wiring …'], ['149', '8544.41', '-Fitted with connectors:'], ['150', '8702.10', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel)'], ['151', '8703.10', '- Vehicles specially designed for travelling on snow; … ….'], ['152', '8703.24', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding …'], ['153', '8703.90', '- Other:'], ['154', '8704.23', '-g.v.w exceeding 20 t:'], ['155', '870600', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.'], ['156', '9001.30', '- Contact lenses ----------------'], ['157', '9004.90', '- Other:'], ['158', '9018.31', '-Syringes, with or without needles:'], ['159', '9019.10', '- Mechano-therapy appliances; massage apparatus; psychological'], ['160', '9402.90', '- Other:']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%   The Philippines:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0103.91', 'Other live swine, weighing less than 50 kg'], ['2', '0103.92', 'Other live swine, weighing 50 kg or more'], ['3', '0105.11', 'Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than 185 g'], ['', '0105.11.90A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0105.11.90B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['4', '0105.92', 'Other fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than 2,000 g:'], ['', '0105.92.90A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0105.92.90B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['5', '0105.93', 'Other fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing more than 2,000 g:'], ['', '0105.93.90', '-Other'], ['', '0105.93.90A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0105.93.90B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['6', '0203.11', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses, of swine, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0203.11.00A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.11.00B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['7', '0203.12', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof with bone in, of swine, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0203.12.00A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.12.00B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['8', '0203.19', 'Other meat of swine, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0203.19.00A', 'A. Pork bellies'], ['', '0203.19.00Aa', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.19.00Ab', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['', '0203.19.00B', 'B. Fore-ends and cuts thereof'], ['', '0203.19.00Ba', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.19.00Bb', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['', '0203.19.00C', 'C. Other'], ['', '0203.19.00Ca', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.19.00Cb', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['9', '0203.21', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses, of swine, frozen'], ['', '0203.21.00A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.21.00B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['10', '0203.22', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof with bone in, of swine, frozen'], ['', '0203.22.00A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.22.00B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['11', '0203.29', 'Other meat of swine, frozen'], ['', '0203.29.00A', 'A. Pork bellies'], ['', '0203.29.00Aa', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.29.00Ab', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['', '0203.29.00B', 'B. Fore-ends and cuts thereof'], ['', '0203.29.00Ba', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.29.00Bb', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['', '0203.29.00C', 'C. Other'], ['', '0203.29.00Ca', 'a. In-Quota'], ['', '0203.29.00Cb', 'b. Out-Quota'], ['12', '0207.11', 'Meat and edible offal, of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, not cut in pieces,\nfresh or chilled'], ['13', '0207.12', 'Meat and edible offal, of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, not cut in pieces,\nfrozen'], ['14', '0207.13', 'Meat and edible offal, of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, cuts and offal,\nfresh or chilled'], ['15', '0207.14', 'Meat and edible offal, of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, cuts and offal,\nfrozen'], ['16', '0701.90', 'Other potatoes, fresh or chilled'], ['17', '0703.10', 'Onions and shallots, fresh or chilled'], ['18', '0703.20', 'Garlic, fresh or chilled'], ['19', '0704.10', 'Cauliflowers and headed broccoli, fresh or chilled'], ['20', '0704.90', 'Other cabbages, cauliflowers, kohirabi, kale and similar edible brassicas, fresh or\nchilled'], ['', '0704.90.10', '-Cabbages'], ['21', '0705.11', 'Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce), fresh of chilled'], ['22', '0706.10', 'Carrots and turnips, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0706.10.10', '-Carrots'], ['23', '0711.90', 'Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables, provisionally preserved but unsuitable\nfor immediate consumption'], ['24', '0714.10', 'Manioc (cassava), fresh, chilled, frozen or dried, whether or not sliced or in the\nform of pellets'], ['25', '0714.20', 'Sweet potatoes, fresh, chilled, frozen or dries, whether or not sliced or in the form\nof pellets'], ['26', '1005.90', 'Other maize (corn)'], ['', '1005.90.90A', 'A. In-Quota'], ['', '1005.90.90B', 'B. Out-Quota'], ['27', '1108.12', 'Maize (corn) starch'], ['28', '3901.10', 'Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than 0.94'], ['29', '3901.20', 'Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or more'], ['30', '3902.10', 'Polypropylene'], ['31', '3903.11', 'Expansible polystyrene'], ['', '3903.11.20', '-Granules'], ['', '3903.11.30', '-Liquids or pastes'], ['', '3903.11.90', '-Other'], ['32', '3903.19', 'Other polystyrene'], ['33', '3904.10', 'Polyvinyl chloride, not mixed with any other substances'], ['34', '3916.90', 'Monofilament of which any cross-sectional dimension exceeds 1 mm, rods, sticks\nand profile shapes, whether or not surface-worked but not otherwise worked, of\nother plastics'], ['35', '3918.10', 'Floor coverings of plastics, whether or not self-adhesive, in rolls or in the forms of\ntiles; wall or ceiling coverings of plastics, as defined in Note 9 to this Chapter, of\npolymers of vinyl chloride'], ['36', '3918.90', 'Floor coverings of plastics, whether or not self-adhesive, in rolls or in the forms of\ntiles; wall or ceiling coverings of plastics, as defined in Note 9 to this Chapter, of\nother plastics'], ['37', '3920.10', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of ethylene, non-cellular and\nnot reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other materials'], ['', '3920.10.90', '-Other'], ['38', '3920.43', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of vinyl chloride, non-cellular\nand not reinforced, laminated, containing by weight not less than 6% of plasticisers'], ['', '3920.43.90A', 'A. Rigid'], ['', '3920.43.90B', 'B. Flexible'], ['39', '3920.49', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of polymers of vinyl chloride, non-cellular\nand not reinforced, laminated, supported or similarly combined with other\nmaterials, nes'], ['', '3920.49.90A', 'A. Rigid'], ['', '3920.49.90B', 'B. Flexible'], ['40', '3921.90', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of plastics, nes'], ['', '3921.90.20', '-Plates and sheets'], ['', '3921.90.90', '-Other'], ['41', '3922.20', 'Lavatory seats and covers'], ['42', '3922.90', 'Bidets and similar sanitary ware, of plastics'], ['43', '3923.90', 'Other articles for the conveyance or packing of goods, of plastics'], ['44', '3924.10', 'Tableware and kitchenware, of plastics'], ['45', '3924.90', 'Other household articles and toilet articles, of plastics'], ['46', '3925.20', 'Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for Doors, of plastics'], ['47', '3925.30', 'Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and similar articles and parts thereof,\nof plastics'], ['48', '3926.20', 'Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves, mittens and mitts),\nof plastics'], ['', '3926.20.10', '-Raincoats'], ['', '3926.20.20', '-Gloves'], ['', '3626.20.30', "-Babies' bib, shoulder pads or shields"], ['', '3926.20.40', '-Aprons and other articles of apparel'], ['', '3926.20.90', '-Other, including belts'], ['49', '3926.30', 'Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the like, of plastics']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP B: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 20%  Viet Nam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '25232100', '-White cement, whether or not artificially coloured'], ['2', '252329', '-Other:'], ['', '25232910', '-Coloured cement'], ['', '25232990', '-Other'], ['3', '271011', '-Light oils and preparations:'], ['', '27101111', '-Motor spirit, premium leaded'], ['', '27101112', '-Motor spirit, premium unleaded'], ['', '27101113', '-Motor spirit, regular leaded'], ['', '27101114', '-Motor spirit, regular unleaded'], ['', '27101115', '-Other motor spirit, leaded'], ['', '27101116', '-Other motor spirit, unleaded'], ['', '27101117', '-Aviation spirit'], ['', '27101118', '-Tetrapropylene'], ['', '27101121', '-White spirit'], ['', '27101122', '-Low aromatic solvents containing by weight less than 1% aromatic content'], ['', '27101123', '-Other solvent spirits'], ['', '27101124', '-Naphtha, reformate or preparations for preparing spirits'], ['', '27101125', '-Other light oil'], ['', '27101129', '-Other'], ['4', '390410', '- Poly(vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other substances:'], ['', '39041010', '-PVC homopolymers, suspension type'], ['', '39041031', '-Used in the manufacture of telephonic or electric wire'], ['', '39041039', '-Other'], ['', '39041040', '-Other, in powder form'], ['5', '40111000', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['6', '401120', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries:'], ['', '40112010', '-Of a width not exceeding 450 mm'], ['', '40112090', '-Other'], ['7', '401310', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars), buses\nor lorries:'], ['', '40131011', '-Suitable for fitting to tyres of width not exceeding 450 mm'], ['', '40131019', '-Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450 mm'], ['', '40131021', '-Suitable for fitting to tyres of width not exceeding 450 mm'], ['', '40131029', '-Suitable for fitting to tyres of width exceeding 450 mm'], ['8', '401699', '-Other:'], ['', '40169911', '--For motor vehicles of headings 87.02, 87.03, 87.04, 87.05 and 87.11'], ['9', '480100', 'Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.'], ['', '48010010', '- Weighing not more than 55 g/ m2'], ['', '48010090', '- Other'], ['10', '48021000', '- Hand-made paper and paperboard'], ['11', '480254', '-Weighing less than 40 g/ m2:'], ['', '48025410', '-Used in the manufacture of gypsum boards and computer cards or paper'], ['', '48025430', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48025490', '-Other'], ['12', '480255', '-Weighing 40 g/ m2 or more but not more than 150 g/ m2, in rolls:'], ['', '48025510', '-For printing banknotes; used in the manufacture of gypsum boards and computer\ncards or paper'], ['', '48025520', '-Fancy paper and paperboard including with watermarks, granitized felt finish,\nfibres or blend of specks and vellum antique finish'], ['', '48025540', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48025590', '-Other'], ['13', '480256', '-Weighing 40 g/ m2 or more but not more than 150 g/ m2 , in sheets with one side\nnot exceeding 435 mm and the other side not exceeding 297 mm in the unfolded\nstate:'], ['', '48025610', '-For printing banknotes; used in the manufacture of gypsum boards and computer\ncards or paper'], ['', '48025620', '-Fancy paper and paperboard including with watermarks, granitized felt finish,\nfibres or blend of specks and vellum antique finish'], ['', '48025630', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48025690', '-Other'], ['14', '480257', '-Other, weighing 40 g/ m2 or more but not more than 150 g/ m2:'], ['', '48025730', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48025790', '-Other'], ['15', '480258', '-Weighing more than 150 g/ m2:'], ['', '48025810', '-Used in the manufacture of gypsum boards and computer cards or paper'], ['', '48025820', '-Fancy paper and paperboard including with watermarks, granitized felt finish,\nfibers or blend of specks and vellum antique finish'], ['', '48025830', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48025890', '-Other'], ['16', '480261', '-In rolls:'], ['', '48026130', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48026190', '-Other'], ['17', '480262', '-In sheets with one side not exceeding 435 mm and the other side not exceeding\n297 mm in the unfolded state:'], ['', '48026230', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48026290', '-Other'], ['18', '480269', '-Other:'], ['', '48026930', '-Other printing, writing or photocopy papers and of a kind used for graphic\npurposes'], ['', '48026990', '-Other'], ['19', '480421', '-Unbleached:'], ['', '48042190', '-Other'], ['20', '480441', '-Unbleached:'], ['', '48044190', '-Other'], ['21', '631010', '- Sorted:'], ['', '63101010', '-Used or new rags'], ['', '63101090', '-Other'], ['22', '631090', '- Other:'], ['', '63109010', '-Used or new rags'], ['', '63109090', '-Other'], ['23', '72092500', '-Of a thickness of 3 mm or more'], ['24', '72092600', '-Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['25', '72092700', '-Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding 1 mm'], ['26', '72092800', '-Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['27', '72101100', '-Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more'], ['28', '721030', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc:'], ['', '72103011', '-Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72103091', '-Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['29', '721041', '-Corrugated:'], ['', '72104110', '-Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72104190', '-Other'], ['30', '721049', '-Other:'], ['', '72104910', '-Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72104990', '-Other'], ['31', '721061', '-Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys:'], ['', '72106110', '-Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72106190', '-Other'], ['32', '721070', '- Painted, varnished or coated with plastics:'], ['', '72107011', '-Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 125 mm'], ['', '72107012', '-Of a thickness less than 4.75 mm or exceeding 125 mm'], ['', '72107020', '-Plated or coated with tin, lead or chromium oxide or with chromium and\nchromium oxide'], ['', '72107030', '-Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc, of thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72107050', '-Otherwise plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of thickness exceeding 1.2\nmm'], ['', '72107060', '-Plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['33', '721090', '- Other:'], ['', '72109020', '-Plated or coated with tin, lead or chromium oxide or with chromium and\nchromium oxide'], ['', '72109030', '-Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc, of thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['', '72109050', '-Otherwise plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of thickness exceeding 1.2\nmm'], ['', '72109060', '-Plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm'], ['34', '721310', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations produced during the\nrolling process:'], ['', '72131010', '-Of circular cross-section measuring not exceeding 50 mm²'], ['35', '721391', '-Of circular cross-section measuring less than 14 mm in diameter:'], ['', '72139191', '--Concrete steel'], ['36', '721399', '-Other:'], ['', '72139991', '--Concrete steel'], ['37', '721410', '- Forged:'], ['', '72141010', '-Containing by weight less than 0.6% of carbon'], ['', '72141020', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['38', '72142000', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other deformations produced during the\nrolling process or twisted after rolling'], ['39', '721590', '- Other:'], ['', '72159011', '-Other than manganese steel or shaft bars'], ['', '72159019', '-Other'], ['', '72159020', '-Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['40', '72161000', '- U, I or H sections, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of\na height of less than 80 mm'], ['41', '72162100', '-L sections'], ['42', '721631', '-U sections:'], ['', '72163111', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163119', '--Other'], ['', '72163191', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163199', '--Other'], ['43', '721632', '-I sections:'], ['', '72163211', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163219', '--Other'], ['', '72163291', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163299', '--Other'], ['44', '721633', '-H sections:'], ['', '72163311', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163319', '--Other'], ['', '72163391', '--Of a height of 80 mm or more but not exceeding 140 mm'], ['', '72163399', '--Other'], ['45', '721640', '- L or T sections, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a\nheight of 80 mm or more:'], ['', '72164011', '-L sections of a height of 80 mm or more but not more than 140 mm'], ['', '72164019', '-Other'], ['', '72164091', '-L sections of a height of 80 mm or more but not more than 140 mm'], ['', '72164099', '-Other'], ['46', '721650', '- Other angles, shapes and sections, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn\nor extruded:'], ['', '72165011', '-Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '72165019', '-Other'], ['', '72165091', '-Of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '72165099', '-Other'], ['47', '72166100', '-Obtained from flat-rolled products'], ['48', '721669', '-Other:'], ['', '72166911', '--Containing by weight 0.6% or more carbon and having a height of 80 mm or\nmore'], ['', '72166912', '--Containing by weight 0.6% or more carbon and having a height of less than 80\nmm'], ['', '72166913', '--Other, of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '72166914', '--Other, of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '72166921', '--Of a thickness of 5 mm or less'], ['', '72166929', '--Other'], ['49', '721691', '-Cold-formed or cold-finished from flat-rolled products:'], ['', '72169111', '--Containing by weight 0.6% or more carbon and having a height of 80 mm or\nmore'], ['', '72169112', '--Containing by weight 0.6% or more carbon and having a height of less than 80\nmm'], ['', '72169113', '--Other, of a height of 80 mm or more'], ['', '72169114', '--Other, of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '72169120', '-Slotted angles, roll-formed from pure-punched steel strips, whether or not painted\nor galvanised'], ['', '72169131', '--Of a thickness of 5 mm or less'], ['', '72169139', '--Other'], ['50', '72169900', '-Other'], ['51', '721710', '- Not plated or coated, whether or not polished:'], ['', '72171010', '-Containing by weight less than 0.25% of carbon:'], ['52', '721720', '- Plated or coated with zinc:'], ['', '72172010', '-Containing by weight less than 0.25% carbon'], ['53', '730630', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-alloy steel:'], ['', '73063015', '-Other, containing by weight less than 0.45% of carbon'], ['', '73063019', '-Other'], ['', '73063024', '-Other, of external diameter less than 140 mm and containing by weight less than\n0.45% of carbon'], ['54', '730690', '- Other:'], ['', '73069093', '-Other, of external diameter measuring less than 140 mm and containing by\nweight less than 0.45% of carbon'], ['55', '732111', '-For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels:'], ['', '73211110', '-Kitchen stoves, ranges, ovens, cookers'], ['', '73211190', '-Other'], ['56', '73219000', '- Parts'], ['57', '83011000', '- Padlocks'], ['58', '83030000', 'Armoured or reinforced safes, strong-boxes and doors and safe deposit lockers for\nstrong-rooms, cash or deed boxes and the like, of base metal.'], ['59', '83081000', '- Hooks, eyes and eyelets'], ['60', '831130', '- Coated rods and cored wire, of base metal, for soldering, brazing or welding by\nflame:'], ['', '83113010', '-In rolls'], ['', '83113090', '-Other'], ['61', '840721', '-Outboard motors:'], ['', '84072110', '-Of an output not exceeding 20 kW'], ['', '84072120', '-Of an output exceeding 20 kW (27 HP) but not exceeding 22.38 kW (30 HP)'], ['62', '840810', '- Marine propulsion engines:'], ['', '84081010', '-Of a power not exceeding 22.38 kW'], ['63', '840820', '- Engines of a kind used for the propulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87:'], ['', '84082011', '-For vehicles of subheading 8701.10, fully assembled'], ['', '84082012', '-Other, for the vehicles of heading 87.01, fully assembled'], ['', '84082013', '-Other, fully assembled'], ['', '84082019', '-Other, not fully assembled'], ['', '84082021', '-For vehicles of subheading 8701.10, fully assembled'], ['', '84082022', '-Other, for the vehicles of heading 87.01, fully assembled'], ['', '84082023', '-Other, fully assembled'], ['', '84082029', '-Other, not fully assembled'], ['', '84082031', '-For vehicles of subheading 8701.10, fully assembled'], ['', '84082032', '-Other, for the vehicles of of heading 87.01, fully assembled'], ['', '84082033', '-Other, fully assembled'], ['', '84082039', '-Other, not fully assembled:'], ['', '84082093', '-Other, fully assembled'], ['', '84082099', '-Other, not fully assembled'], ['64', '840991', '- Suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion\npiston engines:'], ['', '84099141', '--Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099142', '--Cylinder blocks, crank cases, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099143', '--Pistons rings and gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099144', '--Crank cases for engine of motorcycles'], ['', '84099145', '--Crank cases covers and other aluminium covers for engines of motorcycles'], ['', '84099149', '--Other'], ['', '84099151', '--Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099152', '--Cylinder blocks, crank cases, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099153', '--Piston rings and gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099154', '--Pistons, cylinder liners with external diameter between 50 mm and 155 mm'], ['', '84099155', '--Other piston and cylinder liners'], ['', '84099156', '--Alternator brackets; oil pans'], ['', '84099159', '--Other'], ['', '84099171', '--Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099172', '--Cylinder blocks, liners, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099173', '--Pistons, piston rings, gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099174', '--Alternator brackets; oil pans'], ['', '84099179', '--Other'], ['65', '840999', '-Other:'], ['', '84099941', '--Carburettors and parts thereof'], ['', '84099942', '--Cylinder blocks, crank cases, heads and head covers'], ['', '84099943', '--Piston rings and gudgeon pins'], ['', '84099944', '--Pistons, cylinder liners with external diameter between 50 mm and 155 mm'], ['', '84099945', '--Other piston and cylinder liners'], ['', '84099946', '--Alternator brackets; oil pans'], ['', '84099949', '--Other'], ['66', '841360', '- Other rotary positive displacement pumps:'], ['', '84136012', '-Other, water pumps with capacity not exceeding 8000 m³/h'], ['67', '841370', '- Other centrifugal pumps:'], ['', '84137010', '-Single stage, single suction horizontal shaft water pumps suitable for belt drive or\ndirect coupling, other than pumps with shafts common with prime mover -'], ['', '84137022', '-Impulse-turbo water pumps of a capacity not exceeding 100 Watts, of a kind for\nhousehold use'], ['', '84137023', '-Other, water pumps with capacity not exceeding 8000 m³/h'], ['68', '841381', '-Pumps:'], ['', '84138112', '--Other, water pumps with capacity not exceeding 8000 m³/h'], ['69', '841430', '- Compressors of a kind used in refrigerating equipment:'], ['', '84143011', '-For air conditioning machines'], ['', '84143019', '-Other'], ['', '84143091', '-For air conditioning machines'], ['', '84143099', '-Other'], ['70', '841451', '-Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans, with a self-contained electric\nmotor of an output not exceeding 125 W:'], ['', '84145110', '-Table fans and box fans'], ['', '84145120', '-Wall fans and ceiling fans'], ['', '84145130', '-Floor fans'], ['', '84145190', '-Other'], ['71', '841510', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system":'], ['', '84151010', '-Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84151020', '-Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['72', '84152000', '- Of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles -'], ['73', '841581', '-Incorporating a refrigerating unit and a valve for reversal of the cooling/heat'], ['', '', 'cycle (reversible heat pumps):'], ['', '84158111', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158112', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158121', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158122', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158131', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158132', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158191', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158192', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['74', '841582', '-Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit :'], ['', '84158211', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158212', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158221', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158222', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158231', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158232', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '84158291', '--Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '84158292', '--Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['75', '841810', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors:'], ['', '84181010', '-Household type'], ['76', '841821', ''], ['', '84182100', '-Compression-type'], ['77', '84182200', '-Absorption-type, electrical'], ['78', '84182900', '-Other'], ['79', '84521000', '- Sewing machines of the household type'], ['80', '848180', '-Other appliances:'], ['', '84818050', '-Mixing taps and valves'], ['', '84818060', '-Water pipeline valves'], ['81', '848310', '- Transmission shafts (including cam shafts and crank shafts) and cranks:'], ['', '84831023', '-For engines of vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '84831090', '-Other'], ['82', '848330', '- Bearing housings, not incorporating ball or roller bearings, plain shaft bearings:'], ['', '84833020', '-For motor vehicles'], ['83', '848340', '- Gears and gearing, other than toothed wheels, chain sprockets and other\ntransmission elements presented separately; ball or roller screws; gear boxes and\nother speed changers, including torque converters:'], ['', '84834013', '-For engines of vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '84834014', '-For engines of other vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['', '84834090', '-For other engines'], ['84', '850140', '- Other AC motors, single-phase:'], ['', '85014010', '-Of an output not exceeding 1 kW'], ['', '85014020', '-Of an output exceeding 1 kW'], ['85', '850161', '-Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA:'], ['', '85016110', '-Of an output not exceeding 12.5 kVA'], ['', '85016120', '-Of an output exceeding 12.5 kVA'], ['86', '85021100', '-Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA'], ['87', '850220', '- Generating sets with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines:'], ['', '85022010', '-Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA'], ['88', '850433', '- Having a power handling capacity exceeding 16 kVA but not exceeding 500\nkVA:'], ['', '85043310', '-Of high side voltage of 66,000 volts or more'], ['', '85043390', '-Other'], ['89', '850610', '- Manganese dioxide:'], ['', '85061010', '-Having external volume not exceeding 300 cm3'], ['90', '850680', '- Other primary cells and primary batteries:'], ['', '85068011', '-Having external volume not exceeding 300 cm3'], ['', '85068091', '-Having external volume not exceeding 300 cm3'], ['91', '850710', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines:'], ['', '85071091', '-Having a voltage of 6 or 12 V and a discharge capacity not exceeding 200 AH'], ['', '85071099', '-Other'], ['92', '850720', '- Other lead-acid accumulators:'], ['', '85072091', '-Having a voltage of 6 or 12 V and a discharge capacity not exceeding 200 AH'], ['', '85072099', '-Other'], ['93', '85091000', '- Vacuum cleaners, including dry and wet vacuum cleaners'], ['94', '85094000', '- Food grinders or mixers; fruit or vegetable juice extractors'], ['95', '85098000', '- Other appliances'], ['96', '851220', '- Other lighting or visual signalling equipment:'], ['', '85122010', '-For motor cars, assembled'], ['', '85122020', '-Unassembled lighting or visual signaling equipment'], ['', '85122090', '-Other'], ['97', '851610', '- Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters:'], ['', '85161010', '-Electric instantaneous water heaters'], ['', '85161020', '-Electric storage water heaters'], ['98', '85165000', '- Microwave ovens'], ['99', '851660', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters:'], ['', '85166010', '-Rice cookers'], ['', '85166020', '-Ovens'], ['', '85166090', '-Other'], ['100', '851940', '- Transcribing machines:'], ['', '85194010', '-For special use in cinematography, television or broadcasting'], ['', '85194090', '-Other'], ['101', '85199200', '-Pocket-size cassette-players'], ['102', '851993', '-Other, cassette type:'], ['', '85199390', '-Other'], ['103', '851999', '-Other:'], ['', '85199910', '-Cinematographic sound reproducers'], ['', '85199930', '-Compact disc players'], ['', '85199990', '-Other'], ['104', '85271200', '-Pocket-size radio cassette-players'], ['105', '85271300', '-Other apparatus combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['106', '852812', '-Colour:'], ['', '85281210', '-Set top boxes which have a communication function [ITA1/B-203]'], ['', '85281220', '-Printed circuit assemblies for use with ADP machines [ITA1/B-199]'], ['', '85281290', '-Other'], ['107', '853610', '- Fuses:'], ['', '85361090', '-Other'], ['108', '85364900', '-Other'], ['109', '854011', '-Colour:'], ['', '85401110', '-Flat monitor'], ['110', '854460', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage exceeding 1,000 V:'], ['', '85446011', '-Plastic insulated electric cables having a cross section not exceeding 400 mm²'], ['', '85446092', '-Telephone, telegraph, radio relay cables, other than submarine'], ['111', '870110', '- Pedestrian controlled tractors:'], ['', '87011011', '-Two-wheeled agricultural tractors'], ['', '87011012', '-Other two-wheeled tractors'], ['', '87011019', '-Other'], ['112', '870120', '- Road tractors for semi-trailers:'], ['', '87012011', '-Four-wheeled truck tractors'], ['', '87012019', '-Other'], ['113', '870829', '-Other:'], ['', '87082913', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87082914', '--For ambulances'], ['', '87082915', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87082916', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87082917', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87082919', '--Other'], ['', '87082993', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87082994', '--For ambulances'], ['', '87082995', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87082996', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87082997', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87082998', '--Parts of safety belts'], ['', '87082999', '--Other'], ['114', '870870', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof:'], ['', '87087014', '-For ambulances'], ['', '87087015', '-For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87087016', '-For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87087017', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87087019', '-Other'], ['115', '871419', '-Other:'], ['', '87141910', '-Carburettor assembly'], ['', '87141920', '-Clutch assembly'], ['', '87141930', '-Gear assembly'], ['', '87141940', '-Starter system'], ['', '87141950', '-Spokes or nipples'], ['', '87141960', '-Other, for motorcycles of subheading 8711.10, 8711.20 or 8711.90'], ['', '87141970', '-Other, for motorcycles of subheading 8711.30, 8711.40 or 8711.50'], ['116', '871491', '-Frames and forks, and parts thereof:'], ['', '87149120', '-Other frames'], ['', '87149130', '-Other forks'], ['', '87149140', '-Other parts of frames'], ['', '87149190', '-Other parts of forks'], ['117', '871492', '-Wheel rims and spokes:'], ['', '87149290', '-Other wheel rims or spokes'], ['118', '871494', '-Brakes, including coaster braking hubs and hub brakes, and parts thereof:'], ['', '87149490', '-Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP C: Tariff lines subject to tariff reduction by 50%   Korea:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0714.90', '- Other'], ['', '0704909090', '(2) Other'], ['2', '1003.00', 'Barley'], ['', '1003001000', '1. Malting barley'], ['', '1003009010', 'Unhulled barley'], ['', '1003009020', 'Naked barley'], ['', '1003009090', 'Other'], ['3', '1005.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1005902000', 'Popcorn'], ['', '1005909000', 'Other'], ['4', '1008.90', '- Other cereals'], ['', '1008900000', 'Other cereals'], ['5', '1102.90', '- Other'], ['', '1102901000', 'Barley flour'], ['', '1102909000', 'Other'], ['6', '1103.19', '-Of other cereals:'], ['', '1103191000', 'Of barley'], ['', '1103192000', 'Of oats'], ['', '1103199000', 'Other'], ['7', '1104.12', '-Of oats'], ['', '1104120000', 'Of oats'], ['8', '1104.19', 'Of other cereals'], ['', '1104192000', 'Of barley'], ['', '1104199000', 'Other'], ['9', '1104.22', '-Of oats'], ['', '1104220000', 'Of oats'], ['10', '1104.29', '-Of other cereals:'], ['', '1104291000', 'Of coicis semen'], ['', '1104292000', 'Of barley'], ['', '1104299000', 'Of other'], ['11', '1107.10', '- Not roasted'], ['', '1107100000', 'Not roasted'], ['12', '1107.20', '- Roasted'], ['', '1107201000', 'Smoked'], ['13', '1108.19', 'Other starches'], ['', '1108199000', 'Other'], ['14', '1108.20', '- Inulin'], ['', '1108200000', 'Inulin'], ['15', '1515.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1515901000', 'A. Perilla oil and its fractions'], ['16', '2001.90', '2. Other'], ['', '2001909090', 'Other'], ['17', '2006.00', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of plants, preserved by sugar\n(drained, glace or crystallised).'], ['', '2006003000', '3. Ginger'], ['18', '2008.99', 'Other'], ['', '2008992000', 'Apples'], ['19', '2009.11', '-Frozen'], ['', '2009110000', 'Frozen'], ['20', '2009.19', '-Other'], ['', '2009190000', 'Other'], ['21', '2101.20', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté, and'], ['', '2101209000', 'Other'], ['22', '2203.00', 'Beer made from malt.'], ['', '2203000000', 'Beer made from malt.'], ['23', '3505.10', '- Dextrins and other modified starches:'], ['', '3505103000', 'Roasted starches'], ['24', '3505.20', '- Glues'], ['', '3505201000', 'Starch glues'], ['', '3505202000', 'Dextrin glues'], ['', '3505209000', 'Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP D: Tariff lines subject to TRQs   Korea:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0306.13', '-Shrimps and prawns'], ['', '0306131000', 'Frozen shrimps and prawns'], ['', '0306139000', 'Other'], ['2', '0306.23', '-Shrimps and prawns:'], ['', '0306231000', 'Live,fresh or chilled shrimps and prawns'], ['3', '0307.49', '-Other:'], ['', '0307491010', 'Cuttle fish'], ['4', '0713.33', '-Kidney beans, including white pea beans (Phaseolus vulgaris):'], ['', '0713331000', 'Kidney beans, including white pea beans(phaseolus vulgaris)'], ['', '0713339000', 'Other'], ['5', '0714.10', '- Manioc (cassava):'], ['', '0714101000', 'Manioc (cassava)'], ['', '0714102010', '(1) Chips'], ['', '0714102090', '(3) Other'], ['', '0714103000', 'C. Chilled'], ['', '0714104000', 'D. Frozen'], ['6', '1108.14', '-Manioc (cassava) starch'], ['', '1108140000', 'Manioc (cassava) starch'], ['7', '1605.20', '- Shrimps and prawns:'], ['', '1605209090', 'Other shrimps and prawns']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP D: Tariff lines subject to TRQs   Malaysia:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['60', '010391', '-Weighing less than 50 kg'], ['', '010391000', '-Weighing less than 50 kg'], ['61', '010392', '-Weighing 50 kg or more'], ['', '010392000', '-Weighing 50 kg or more'], ['62', '010511', '-Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus'], ['', '010511100', 'Day old chicks'], ['63', '010592', '-Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than 2,000g'], ['', '010592000', '-Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus, weighing not more than 2,000\ng.'], ['64', '020311', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['', '020311000', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['65', '020321', '-Carcasses and half carcasses'], ['', '020321000', '-Carcasses and half-carcasses'], ['66', '020711', '-Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled'], ['', '020711000', '-Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled.'], ['67', '020712', '-Not cut in pieces, frozen'], ['', '020712000', '-Not cut in pieces, frozen.'], ['68', '020713', '-Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled'], ['', '020713000', '-Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled.'], ['69', '020714', '-Cuts and offal, frozen'], ['', '020714000', '-Cuts and offal, frozen.'], ['70', '040110', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1%'], ['', '040110100', 'In hermetically sealed containers'], ['', '040110900', 'Other'], ['71', '040120', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1% but not exceeding 6%'], ['', '040120100', 'In hermetically sealed containers'], ['', '040120900', 'Other'], ['72', '040130', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6%'], ['', '040130100', 'In hermetically sealed containers'], ['', '040130900', 'Other'], ['73', '040700', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['', '040700111', "hens's egg"], ['', '040700112', "ducks' eggs"], ['', '040700910', "hens' eggs"], ['', '040700920', "ducks' eggs"], ['74', '070490', '- Other'], ['', '070490110', 'round cabbages']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP D: Tariff lines subject to TRQs   Viet Nam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '040700', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked."], ['', '04070091', '-Hens’ eggs'], ['', '04070092', '-Ducks’ eggs'], ['', '04070099', '-Other'], ['2', '17011100', '-Cane sugar'], ['3', '17011200', '-Beet sugar'], ['4', '17019100', '-Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['5', '170199', '-Other:'], ['', '17019911', '--White'], ['', '17019919', '--Other'], ['', '17019990', '-Other'], ['6', '240110', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped:'], ['', '24011010', '-Virginia type, flue-cured'], ['', '24011020', '-Virginia type, not flue cured'], ['', '24011030', '-Other, flue-cured'], ['', '24011090', '-Other, not flue cured'], ['7', '240120', '- Tobacco, partly or wholly stemmed/stripped:'], ['', '24012010', '-Virginia type, flue-cured'], ['', '24012020', '-Virginia type, not flue cured'], ['', '24012030', '-Oriental type'], ['', '24012040', '-Burley type'], ['', '24012050', '-Other, flue-cured'], ['', '24012090', '-Other, not flue cured'], ['8', '240130', '- Tobacco refuse:'], ['', '24013010', '-Tobacco stems'], ['', '24013090', '-Other'], ['9', '250100', 'Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) and pure sodium chloride, whether or\nnot in aqueous solution or containing added anti-caking or free- flowing\nagents; sea water.'], ['', '25010010', '- Table salt'], ['', '25010021', '-Salt containing at least 94.7% of sodium chloride calculated on a dry basis in\npackages of a net weight of 50 kg or more'], ['', '25010029', '-Other'], ['', '25010031', '-Pure salt'], ['', '25010032', '-Other, in packages of 50 kg or more'], ['', '25010033', '-Other, in packages of less than 50 kg'], ['', '25010090', '- Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   Brunei Darussalam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '4011.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['', '4011.10.00', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons and racing cars)'], ['2', '8415.10', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system":'], ['', '8415.10.10', '-Of an output not exceeding 21.10 kW'], ['', '8415.10.20', '-Of an output exceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW'], ['', '8415.10.30', '-Of an output exceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding 52.75 kW'], ['3', '8418.10', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate external doors:'], ['', '8418.10.10', '-Household type'], ['4', '8507.10', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines :'], ['', '8507.10.91', '-Having a voltage of 6 or 12 V and a dischargecapacity not exceeding 200AH'], ['5', '8708.10', '- Bumpers and parts thereof:'], ['', '8708.10.10', '-For vehicles of 87.01'], ['', '8708.10.20', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.10.30', '-For ambulances'], ['', '8708.10.40', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.10.50', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.10.60', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['6', '8708.29', '-Other'], ['', '8708.29.11', '--For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.29.12', '--For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.29.13', '--For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.29.14', '--For ambulance'], ['', '8708.29.15', '--For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.29.16', '--For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.29.17', '--For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '8708.29.19', '--Other'], ['', '', '-Other:'], ['', '8708.29.91', '--For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.29.92', '--For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.29.93', '--For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.29.94', '--For ambulance'], ['', '8708.29.95', '--For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.29.96', '--For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.29.97', '--For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '8708.29.98', '--Parts of safety belts'], ['7', '8708.31', '-Mounted brake linings :'], ['', '8708.31.10', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.31.20', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.31.30', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.31.40', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.31.50', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.31.60', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.31.70', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['8', '8708.40', 'Gear boxes'], ['', '8708.40.11', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.40.12', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.40.13', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.40.14', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.40.15', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.40.16', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.40.17', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '8708.40.19', '-Other'], ['', '8708.40.21', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.40.22', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.40.23', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.40.24', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.40.25', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.40.26', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.40.27', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['9', '8708.80', '- Suspension shock-absorbers:'], ['', '8708.80.10', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.80.20', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.80.30', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.80.40', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.80.50', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.80.60', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.80.70', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['10', '8708.91', '-Radiators :'], ['', '8708.91.10', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.91.20', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.91.30', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.91.40', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.91.50', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.91.60', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.91.70', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['11', '8708.92', 'Silencers and exhaust pipes'], ['', '8708.92.11', '--For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.92.12', '--For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.92.13', '--For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.92.14', '--For ambulance'], ['', '8708.92.15', '--For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.92.16', '--For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.92.17', '--For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '8708.92.19', '--Other'], ['', '8708.92.91', '--For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.92.92', '--For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.92.93', '--For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.92.94', '--For ambulance'], ['', '8708.92.95', '--For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.92.96', '--For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.92.97', '--For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['12', '8708.93', '-Clutches and parts thereof :'], ['', '8708.93.10', '-For vehicles of 8701.10 or 8701.90 (agricultural tractors only)'], ['', '8708.93.20', '-For vehicles of 87.01 (except 8701.10 or 8701.90)(agricultural tractors))'], ['', '8708.93.30', '-For vehicles of 87.02 and 87.04 (except 8704.10)'], ['', '8708.93.40', '-For ambulance'], ['', '8708.93.50', '-For vehicles of 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.93.60', '-For vehicles of 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '8708.93.70', '-For vehicles of 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['13', '8708.99', '-Other'], ['', '8708.99.11', '--For vehicles of 87.01'], ['', '8708.99.19', '--Other'], ['', '8708.99.21', '--Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '8708.99.29', '--Other'], ['', '8708.99.31', '--Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '8708.99.39', '--Other'], ['', '8708.99.40', '-Other parts and accessories for vehicles of 8701.90 (except agricultural tractors)'], ['', '8708.99.91', '--Crown wheels and pinions'], ['', '8708.99.92', '--Automotive liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders'], ['', '8708.99.93', '--Parts of suspension shock-absorbers'], ['', '8708.99.99', '--Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession  Cambodia:   
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', None, None, 'DESCRIPTION', None, None], ['1', '', '2402.20', '', '', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco:', ''], ['2', '', '3926.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['3', '', '4015.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['4', '', '4016.99', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['5', '', '4104.49', '', '', '-Other:', ''], ['6', '', '4821.10', '', '', '- Printed:', ''], ['7', '', '5407.69', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['8', '', '5515.19', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['9', '', '5515.29', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['10', '', '5804.29', '', '', '-Of other textile materials', ''], ['11', '', '5806.39', '', '', '-Of other textile materials:', ''], ['12', '', '5807.10', '', '', '- Woven', ''], ['13', '', '6004.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['14', '', '6217.10', '', '', '- Accessories:', ''], ['15', '', '6217.90', '', '', '- Parts', ''], ['16', '', '6309.00', '', '', 'Worn clothing and other worn articles.', ''], ['17', '', '6310.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['18', '', '7308.90', '', '', '- Other:', ''], ['19', '', '8308.10', '', '', '- Hooks, eyes and eyelets', ''], ['20', '', '8408.90', '', '', '- Other engines:', ''], ['21', '', '8419.60', '', '', '- Machinery for liquefying air or other gases:', ''], ['22', '', '8447.11', '', '', '-With cylinder diameter not exceeding 165 mm:', ''], ['23', '', '8452.29', '', '', '-Other', ''], ['24', '', '8471.49', '', '', '-Other, presented in the form of systems:', ''], ['25', '8471.60', None, None, '', '- Input or output units, whether or not containing storage units in the same', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'housing:', None], ['26', '', '8504.21', '', '', '-Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 650 kVA:', ''], ['27', '', '8536.50', '', '', '- Other switches:', ''], ['28', '', '8536.69', '', '', '-Plugs and sockets:', ''], ['29', '', '8544.20', '', '', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors:', ''], ['30', '', '8544.41', '', '', '-Fitted with connectors:', ''], ['31', '8702.10', None, None, '', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'diesel):', None], ['32', '', '8703.21', '', '', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc:', ''], ['33', '', '8704.10', '', '', '- Dumpers designed for off-highway use:', ''], ['34', '', '8704.21', '', '', '-g.v.w not exceeding 5 t:', ''], ['35', '', '8704.22', '', '', '-g.v.w exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 20 t:', ''], ['36', '8711.20', None, None, '', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc:', None], ['37', '', '8716.90', '', '', '- Parts:', ''], ['38', '', '9028.30', '', '', '- Electricity meters:', ''], ['39', '', '9028.90', '', '', '- Parts and accessories:', ''], ['40', '', '9403.40', '', '', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the kitchen:', '']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   Indonesia:   
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '1006.10', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['', '1006.10.10.00', '--Suitable for sowing'], ['', '1006.10.90.00', '--Other'], ['2', '1006.20', '- Husked (brown) rice'], ['', '1006.20.10.00', '--Thai hom mali rice'], ['', '1006.20.90.00', '--Other'], ['3', '1006.30', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed:'], ['', '1006.30.11.00', '---Whole'], ['', '1006.30.12.00', '---Not more than 5 % broken'], ['', '1006.30.13.00', '---More than 5% but not more than 10 % broken'], ['', '1006.30.14.00', '---More than 10% but not more than 25% broken'], ['', '1006.30.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '1006.30.20.00', '--Parboiled rice'], ['', '1006.30.30.00', '--Glutinous rice (pulot)'], ['', '1006.30.40.00', '--Basmati rice'], ['', '1006.30.50.00', '--Thai hom mali rice'], ['', '1006.30.61.00', '---Whole'], ['', '1006.30.62.00', '---Not more than 5 % broken'], ['', '1006.30.63.00', '---More than 5 % but not more than 10% broken'], ['', '1006.30.64.00', '---More than 10% but not more than 25% broken'], ['', '1006.30.69.00', '---Other'], ['4', '1006.40', '- Broken rice'], ['', '1006.40.00.00', '-Broken'], ['5', '1102.30', '- Rice flour'], ['', '1102.30.00.00', '-Rice flour'], ['6', '1701.11', '- - Cane sugar'], ['', '1701.11.00.10', '---ICUMSA minimal 1200'], ['', '1701.11.00.90', '---Other'], ['7', '1701.12', '- - Beet sugar'], ['', '1701.12.00.00', '--Beet sugar'], ['8', '1701.91', '- - Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['', '1701.91.00.00', '--Containing added flavouring or colouring'], ['9', '1701.99', '- - Other'], ['', '1701.99.11.00', '----White'], ['', '1701.99.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '1701.99.90.00', '---Other'], ['10', '2106.90', '- Other'], ['', '2106.90.61.00', '-----Of a kind used for the manufacture of'], ['', '2106.90.62.00', '-----Of a kind used for the manufacture of'], ['', '2106.90.63.00', '-----Other'], ['', '2106.90.64.00', '-----Of a kind used for the manufacture of'], ['', '2106.90.65.00', '-----Of a kind used for the manufacture of'], ['', '2106.90.66.00', '-----Other'], ['', '2106.90.67.00', '----Other mixtures of chemicals with'], ['', '2106.90.69.00', '----Other'], ['11', '2203.00', 'Beer made from malt'], ['', '2203.00.10.00', '-Stout and porter'], ['', '2203.00.90.00', '-Other, including ale'], ['12', '2204.10', '- Sparkling wine'], ['', '2204.10.00.00', '-Sparkling wine'], ['13', '2204.21', '- - In containers holding 2 l or less'], ['', '2204.21.11.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2204.21.12.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2204.21.21.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2204.21.22.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['14', '2204.29', '- - Other'], ['', '2204.29.11.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2204.29.12.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2204.29.21.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2204.29.22.00', '----Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['15', '2204.30', '- Other grape must'], ['', '2204.30.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2204.30.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['16', '2205.10', '- In containers holding 2 l or less'], ['', '2205.10.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2205.10.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['17', '2205.90', '- Other'], ['', '2205.90.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2205.90.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['18', '2206.00', 'Other fermented beverages (for example, cider, perry, mead); mixtures'], ['', '2206.00.10.00', '-Cider and perry'], ['', '2206.00.20.00', '-Sake (rice wine)'], ['', '2206.00.30.00', '-Toddy'], ['', '2206.00.40.00', '-Shandy of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2206.00.50.00', '-Shandy of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2206.00.90.00', '-Other, including mead'], ['19', '2208.20', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape marc'], ['', '2208.20.10.00', '--Brandy of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2208.20.20.00', '--Brandy of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2208.20.30.00', '--Other, of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['', '2208.20.40.00', '--Other, of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['20', '2208.30', '- Whiskies'], ['', '2208.30.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2208.30.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['21', '2208.40', '- Rum and tafia'], ['', '2208.40.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2208.40.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['22', '2208.50', '- Gin and Geneva'], ['', '2208.50.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2208.50.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['23', '2208.60', '- Vodka'], ['', '2208.60.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2208.60.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['24', '2208.70', '- Liquers and cordials'], ['', '2208.70.10.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume not'], ['', '2208.70.20.00', '--Of an alcoholic strength by volume'], ['25', '2208.90', '- Other'], ['', '2208.90.10.00', '--Medicated samsu of an alcoholic strength by'], ['', '2208.90.20.00', '--Medicated samsu of an alcoholic strength by'], ['', '2208.90.30.00', '--Other samsu of an alcoholic strength by'], ['', '2208.90.40.00', '--Other samsu of an alcoholic strength by'], ['', '2208.90.50.00', '--Arrack and pineapple spirit of an alcoholic'], ['', '2208.90.60.00', '--Arrack and pineapple spirit of an alcoholic'], ['', '2208.90.70.00', '--Bitters and similar beverages of an'], ['', '2208.90.80.00', '--Bitters and similar beverages of an'], ['', '2208.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['26', '3006.80', '- Waste pharmaceuticals'], ['', '3006.80.00.00', '-Waste pharmaceuticals'], ['27', '3302.10', '- Of a kind used in the food or drink industries'], ['', '3302.10.10.00', '--Odoriferous alcoholic preparations of a'], ['', '3302.10.20.00', '--Odoriferous alcoholic preparations of a'], ['28', '7208.25', '- - - Coils for re-rolling'], ['', '7208.25.10.10', '----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.25.10.90', '----Other'], ['', '7208.25.91.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.25.91.90', '-----Other'], ['', '7208.25.99.10', '-----Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.25.99.90', '-----Other'], ['29', '7208.36', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 10 mm'], ['', '7208.36.00.10', '---Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.36.00.90', '---Other'], ['30', '7208.52', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['', '7208.52.00.10', '--Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.52.00.90', '---Other'], ['31', '7208.53', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm'], ['', '7208.53.00.10', '--Of a maximum tensile strength of 550 Mpa'], ['', '7208.53.00.90', '---Other'], ['32', '7208.54', '- Other'], ['', '7208.54.00.10', '--Of a thickness more than 2 mm, maximum'], ['', '7208.54.00.90', '---Other'], ['33', '7209.15', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['', '7209.15.00.00', '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more'], ['34', '7210.11', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['', '7210.11.00.00', '--Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more'], ['35', '7210.90', '- - Not clad, plated or coated with metal'], ['', '7210.90.11.00', '---Of a thickness 4.75 mm or more but not'], ['', '7210.90.12.00', '---Of thickness less than 4.75 mm or exceeding'], ['', '7210.90.20.00', '--Plated or coated with tin, lead or chromium'], ['', '7210.90.30.00', '--Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7210.90.40.00', '--Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['', '7210.90.50.00', '--Otherwise plated or coated with zinc or'], ['', '7210.90.60.00', '--Plated or coated with zinc or aluminium, of'], ['', '7210.90.70.00', '--Plated or coated with other metals, of'], ['', '7210.90.90.00', '--Other'], ['36', '7212.20', '- - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon, corrugated'], ['', '7212.20.11.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.12.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.20.19.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.20.21.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 400 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.22.00', '---Hoop and strip, exceeding 400 mm but not'], ['', '7212.20.29.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.20.31.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.32.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.33.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.20.39.00', '---Other'], ['', '7212.20.91.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.92.00', '---Hoop and strip, not exceeding 6 mm in'], ['', '7212.20.93.00', '---Other, 1.5 mm or less in thickness'], ['', '7212.20.99.00', '---Other'], ['37', '7216.10', 'or extruded, of a height of less than 80 mm'], ['', '7216.10.00.00', '-U, I or H sections, not further worked'], ['38', '7216.21', '- - T sections'], ['', '7216.21.00.00', '--L sections'], ['39', '7216.32', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7216.32.11.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.32.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7216.32.91.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.32.99.00', '----Other'], ['40', '7216.33', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6% or more of carbon'], ['', '7216.33.11.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.33.19.00', '----Other'], ['', '7216.33.91.00', '----Of a height of 80 mm or more but not'], ['', '7216.33.99.00', '----Other']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   Korea:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0202.20', '- Other cuts with bone in'], ['', '0202200000', 'Other cuts with bone in'], ['2', '0202.30', '- Boneless'], ['', '0202300000', 'Boneless'], ['3', '0203.19', '-Other'], ['', '0203191000', 'Belly'], ['', '0203199000', 'Other'], ['4', '0203.29', '-Other'], ['', '0203291000', 'Belly'], ['', '0203299000', 'Other'], ['5', '0207.13', '-Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled'], ['', '0207131010', 'Leg'], ['', '0207131020', 'Breast'], ['', '0207131030', 'Wing'], ['', '0207131090', 'Other'], ['', '0207132090', 'Other'], ['6', '0207.14', '-Cuts and offal, frozen:'], ['', '0207141010', 'Leg'], ['', '0207141020', 'Breast'], ['', '0207141030', 'Wing'], ['', '0207141090', 'Other'], ['7', '0207.36', '-Other, frozen:'], ['', '0207361000', 'Cuts'], ['8', '0301.99', '-Other:'], ['', '0301994000', 'Sea-bream'], ['', '0301998000', 'Flat fish'], ['', '0301999010', 'True bass'], ['', '0301999020', 'Puffers'], ['', '0301999030', 'Tilapia'], ['', '0301999040', 'Rock fish(including pacific ocean perch)'], ['', '0301999050', 'Sea bass'], ['', '0301999060', 'Mullets'], ['', '0301999091', 'Rock Trout(Hexagrammos spp., Agrammus spp.)'], ['', '0301999095', 'Croakers'], ['', '0301999099', 'Other'], ['9', '0302.69', '-Other:'], ['', '0302693000', 'Hair tail'], ['', '0302694000', 'Sea-bream'], ['', '0302699010', 'Chub mackerel'], ['', '0302699020', 'Puffers'], ['', '0302699030', 'Pomfret'], ['', '0302699040', 'Angler(Monkfish)'], ['', '0302699090', 'Other'], ['10', '0303.79', '-Other:'], ['', '0303791000', 'Alaska pollack'], ['', '0303793000', 'Hair tail'], ['', '0303794090', 'Other'], ['', '0303796000', 'Yellow corvina'], ['', '0303797000', 'Horse mackerel'], ['', '0303798000', 'Saury(including horn fish)'], ['', '0303799010', 'Chub mackerel'], ['', '0303799091', 'Angler(Monkfish)'], ['', '0303799093', 'Skate'], ['', '0303799095', 'Croakers'], ['', '0303799099', 'Other'], ['11', '0404.90', '- Other:'], ['', '0404900000', '2. Other'], ['12', '0703.10', '- Onions and shallots:'], ['', '0703101000', 'A. Onions'], ['13', '0703.20', '- Garlic:'], ['', '0703201000', 'Peeled'], ['', '0703209000', 'Other'], ['14', '0709.60', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta:'], ['', '0709601000', 'Sweet peppers(bell type)'], ['', '0709609000', 'Other'], ['15', '0710.80', '- Other vegetables'], ['', '0710802000', 'Garlic'], ['', '0710807000', 'Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta'], ['16', '0711.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables:'], ['', '0711901000', 'Garlic'], ['', '0711905091', 'Fruits of the genus capsicum or of the genus pimenta'], ['17', '0712.20', '- Onions'], ['', '0712200000', '1. Onions'], ['18', '0712.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables'], ['', '0712901000', 'A. Garlic'], ['19', '0803.00', 'Bananas, including plantains, fresh or dried.'], ['', '0803000000', 'Bananas, including plantains,fresh or dried.'], ['20', '0804.30', '- Pineapples'], ['', '0804300000', '3. Pineapples'], ['21', '0805.20', '- Mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas); clementines, wilkings and similar\ncitrus hybrids'], ['', '0805201000', 'Korean citrus'], ['', '0805209000', 'Other'], ['22', '0805.90', '- Other'], ['', '0805900000', 'Other'], ['23', '0902.10', '- Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packings of a content not exceeding 3 kg:'], ['', '0902100000', 'Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packings of a content not exceeding 3kg'], ['24', '0902.20', '- Other green tea (not fermented):'], ['', '0902200000', 'Other green tea (not fermented)'], ['25', '0904.20', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus Pimenta, dried or crushed or ground:'], ['', '0904201000', 'Neither crushed not ground'], ['', '0904202000', 'Crushed or ground'], ['26', '1006.10', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough):'], ['', '1006100000', 'Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['27', '1006.20', '- Husked (brown) rice:'], ['', '1006201000', 'Nonglutinous'], ['', '1006202000', 'Glutinous'], ['28', '1006.30', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed:'], ['', '1006301000', 'Nonglutinous'], ['', '1006302000', 'Glutinous'], ['29', '1006.40', '- Broken rice'], ['', '1006400000', 'Broken rice'], ['30', '1102.30', '- Rice flour'], ['', '1102300000', 'Rice flour'], ['31', '1103.19', 'Of other cereals'], ['', '1103193000', 'Of rice'], ['32', '1103.20', '- Pellets'], ['', '1103202000', 'Of rice'], ['33', '1104.19', '-Of other cereals:'], ['', '1104191000', 'Of rice'], ['34', '1602.32', 'Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus'], ['', '1602321090', 'Other'], ['', '1602329000', 'Other'], ['35', '1602.49', '-Other, including mixtures:'], ['', '1602491000', 'In airtight containers'], ['', '1602499000', 'Other'], ['36', '1604.14', '-Tunas, skipjack and bonito (Sarda spp.):'], ['', '1604141011', 'In oil'], ['', '1604141012', 'Boiled'], ['', '1604141019', 'Other'], ['', '1604141021', 'In oil'], ['', '1604141022', 'Boiled'], ['', '1604141029', 'Other'], ['', '1604141031', 'In oil'], ['', '1604141032', 'Boiled'], ['', '1604141039', 'Other'], ['', '1604149000', 'Other'], ['37', '1806.90', '- Other:'], ['', '1806902290', 'Other'], ['', '1806902999', 'Other'], ['38', '1901.20', "- Mixes and doughs for the preparation of bakers' wares of heading 19.05:"], ['', '1901201000', 'Of rice flour'], ['', '1901209000', 'Other'], ['39', '1901.90', '3. Other'], ['', '1901902000', 'B. Food preparations of goods of headings 04.01 to 04.04'], ['', '1901909091', 'Of rice flour'], ['', '1901909099', 'Other'], ['40', '4411.21', '-Not mechanically worked or surface covered'], ['', '4411210000', "Not mech'anically worked or surface covered"]]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession  Malaysia:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['75', '020840', '- Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the order Cetacea); of manatees\nand dugongs (mammals of the order Sirenia)'], ['', '020840000', '- Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the order Cetecea); of manatees\nand dugongs (mammals of the order Sirenia)'], ['76', '020850', '- Of reptiles (including snakes and turtles)'], ['', '020850000', '- Of reptiles (including snakes and turtles)'], ['77', '021092', '-Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the order Cetacea); of manatees\nand dugongs (mammals of the order Sirenia)'], ['', '021092000', '-Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of ther order Cetecea); of manatees\nand dugongs (mammals of the order Sirenia)'], ['78', '220300', 'Beer made from malt.'], ['', '220300100', 'not exceeding 5.8% vol'], ['', '220300900', 'Other'], ['79', '220410', '- Sparkling wine'], ['', '220410000', '- Sparkling wine'], ['80', '220421', '-In containers holding 2 litres or less'], ['', '220421100', 'wine'], ['', '220421200', 'grape must with fermentation prevented or arrested by the addition of alcohol'], ['81', '220429', '-Other'], ['', '220429100', 'wine'], ['', '220429200', 'grape must with fermentation prevented or arrested by the addition of alcohol'], ['82', '220430', '- Other grape must'], ['', '220430000', '- Other grape must'], ['83', '220510', '- In containers holding 2 litres or less'], ['', '220510000', '- In containers holding 2 1 or less'], ['84', '220590', '- Other'], ['', '220590000', '- Other'], ['85', '220600', 'Other fermented beverages (for example, cider, perry, mead); mixtures of\nfermented beverages and mixtures of fermented beverages and non-alcoholic\nbeverages, not elsewhere specified or included.'], ['', '220600100', 'Cider and perry'], ['', '220600200', 'Rice wine (including sake and medicated rice wine)'], ['', '220600300', 'Mead'], ['', '220600400', 'Wines obtained by the fermentation of fruit juices, other than juice of fresh\ngrapes (fig, date or berry wines), or ofvegetable juices'], ['', '220600910', 'toddy, bottled or canned'], ['', '220600990', 'other'], ['86', '220710', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80% or higher'], ['', '220710000', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80% vol\nor higher'], ['87', '220720', '- Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength'], ['', '220720100', 'ethyl alcohol, denatured to the satisfaction of the Director-General of Customs'], ['', '220720900', 'other'], ['88', '220820', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine grape marc'], ['', '220820100', 'brandy'], ['', '220820900', 'other'], ['89', '220830', 'Whiskies'], ['', '220830000', '- Whiskies'], ['90', '220840', 'Rum and tafia'], ['', '220840000', '- Rum and tafia'], ['91', '220850', 'Gin and Geneva'], ['', '220850000', '- Gin and Geneva'], ['92', '220860', 'Vodka'], ['', '220860000', '- Vodka'], ['93', '220870', 'Liqueurs and cordials'], ['', '220870100', 'Liqueurs and similar beverages not exceeding 57% vol'], ['', '220870900', 'Other'], ['94', '220890', '- Other'], ['', '220890100', 'samsu (including medicated samsu)'], ['', '220890200', 'arrack and pineapple spirit'], ['', '220890300', 'Bitters'], ['', '220890910', 'exceeding 0.5% vol but not exceeding 1.14% vol'], ['', '220890990', 'other'], ['95', '220900', 'Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar obtained from acetic acid.'], ['', '220900000', 'Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar obtained from acetic acid'], ['96', '240110', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped'], ['', '240110100', 'flue cured, of the virginia type'], ['', '240110900', 'other'], ['97', '240120', '- Tobacco, partly or wholly stemmed/stripped'], ['', '240120100', 'flue cured, of the virginia type'], ['', '240120900', 'other'], ['98', '240130', '- Tobacco refuse'], ['', '240130000', '- Tobacco refuse'], ['99', '240210', '- Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco'], ['', '240210000', '- Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco'], ['100', '240220', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco'], ['', '240220100', 'Beedies'], ['', '240220900', 'Other'], ['101', '240290', '- Other'], ['', '240290100', 'cigars, cheroots and cigarillos containing tobacco substitutes'], ['', '240290200', 'cigarettes containing tobacco substitutes'], ['102', '240310', '- Smoking tobacco, whether or not containing tobacco substitutes in any propostion'], ['', '240310110', 'in airtight containers'], ['', '240310190', 'other'], ['', '240310900', 'Other'], ['103', '240391', '-"Homogenised" or "reconstituted" tobacco'], ['', '240391100', 'for retail sale'], ['', '240391900', 'other'], ['104', '240399', '-Other'], ['', '240399200', 'snuff'], ['', '240399310', 'cut-rags'], ['', '240399390', 'other'], ['', '240399900', 'Other'], ['105', '401220', '- Used pneumatic tyres'], ['', '401220100', 'of a kind used on motor cars'], ['', '401220200', 'of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['', '401220300', 'of a kind used on aircraft'], ['', '401220400', 'of a kind used on motor cycles including motor scooters'], ['', '401220500', 'of a kind used on bicycles'], ['', '401220610', 'of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401220690', 'other'], ['', '401220710', 'of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401220720', 'of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['', '401220790', 'other'], ['', '401220810', 'of a kind used on tractor, implement and earthmover'], ['', '401220820', 'of a kind used on forklifts and industrial equipment'], ['', '401220890', 'other'], ['', '401220900', 'Other'], ['106', '930200', 'Revolvers and pistols, other than those of heading 93.03 or 93.04.'], ['', '930200000', 'Revolvers and pistols, other than those of heading No 93.03 or 93.04'], ['107', '930310', '- Muzzle-loading firearms'], ['', '930310000', '- Muzzle-loading firearms'], ['108', '930320', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-shooting shotguns, including combination\nshotgun-rifles'], ['', '930320000', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-shooting shotguns, including combination\nshotgun-rifles'], ['109', '930330', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-shooting rifles'], ['', '930330000', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-shooting rifles'], ['110', '930390', '- Other'], ['', '930390000', '- Other'], ['111', '930400', 'Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns and pistols, truncheons), excluding\nthose of heading 93.07.'], ['', '930400000', 'Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns and pistons, truncheons),\nexcluding those of heading NO. 93.07'], ['112', '930591', '-Of military weapons of heading 93.01'], ['', '930591100', 'Of leather'], ['', '930591200', 'Of textile material'], ['113', '930599', '-Other'], ['', '930599100', 'Of leather'], ['', '930599200', 'Of textile material']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   Myanmar:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '030611', '-Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus spp.) ---'], ['2', '030612', '-Lobsters (Homarus spp.) ------'], ['3', '030613', '-Shrimps and prawns -----'], ['4', '030614', '-Crabs --------'], ['5', '100610', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough):'], ['6', '100620', '- Husked (brown) rice:'], ['7', '100630', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed:'], ['8', '100640', '- Broken rice --------------------'], ['9', '220300', 'Beer made from malt.'], ['10', '220421', '-In containers holding 2 l or less:'], ['11', '220429', '-Other:'], ['12', '220430', '- Other grape must:'], ['13', '220510', '- In containers holding 2 l or less:'], ['14', '220590', '- Other:'], ['15', '22.0600', 'Other fermented beverages (for example, cider, perry, mead); mixtures of fermented\nbeverages'], ['16', '220820', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape marc:'], ['17', '220830', '- Whiskies:'], ['18', '220840', '- Rum and tafia:'], ['19', '220850', '- Gin and Geneva:'], ['20', '220860', '- Vodka:'], ['21', '220870', '- Liqueurs and cordials:'], ['22', '220890', '- Other:'], ['23', '240220', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco:'], ['24', '240290', '- Other:'], ['25', '410411', '-Full grains, unsplit; grain splits:'], ['26', '410621', '-In the wet state (including wet-blue):'], ['27', '411200', 'Leather further prepared after tanning or crusting, including parchment - dressed\nleather, of'], ['28', '411390', '- Other ----------------------'], ['29', '710310', '- Unworked or simply sawn or roughly shaped -------------'], ['30', '710391', '-Rubies, sapphires and emeralds ----------------'], ['31', '71039900', '-Other ----------------------'], ['32', '852692', '-Radio remote control apparatus ----------------'], ['33', '870321', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['34', '870322', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['35', '870323', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc:'], ['36', '870331', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['37', '870332', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc:'], ['38', '870333', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc:']]
39 870710 - For the vehicles of heading 87.03: 
[['40', '870810', '- Bumpers and parts thereof:']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   The Philippines:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '1006.10', 'Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['', '1006.10.90', '-Other'], ['2', '1006.20', 'Husked (brown) rice'], ['3', '1006.30', 'Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed'], ['4', '1006.40', 'Broken rice'], ['5', '1701.11', 'Cane sugar:'], ['6', '1701.12', 'Beet sugar:'], ['7', '1701.91', 'Other cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose, in solid form, containing\nadded flavouring or coloring matter'], ['8', '1701.99', 'Other cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose, in solid form, nes, other than\ncontaining added flavouring or coloring matter'], ['9', '5703.10', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, tufted, whether or not made up, of wool or\nfine animal hair'], ['', '5703.10.90', '-Other'], ['10', '5703.90', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, tufted, whether or not made up, of other\ntextile materials'], ['', '5703.90.91', '-Of jute fibres'], ['', '5703.90.99', '-Other'], ['11', '5705.00', 'Other carpets and other textile floor coverings, whether or not made up'], ['12', '7320.10', 'Leaf-springs and leaves therefore, of iron and steel'], ['', '7320.10.10', '-For motor vehicles'], ['', '7320.10.90', '-Other'], ['13', '8409.91', 'Other parts suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engines:'], ['', '8409.91.52', '--Cylinder blocks, crank cases, heads and head covers'], ['14', '8409.99', 'Other parts suitable for use solely or principally with the engines of heading 84.07 or\n84.08, nes'], ['', '8409.99.49', '--Other'], ['15', '8413.30', 'Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for internal combustion piston engines'], ['', '8413.30.29', '-Other'], ['16', '8507.10', 'Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines, whether or not rectangular\n(including square)'], ['', '8507.10.91', '-Having a voltage of 6 or 12 V and a discharge capacity not exceeding 200 AH'], ['', '8507.10.99', '-Other'], ['17', '8507.20', 'Other lead-acid accumulators, whether or not rectangular (including square)'], ['18', '8507.90', 'Parts of electric accumulators, including separators therefor, whether or not\nrectangular (including square)'], ['19', '8511.30', 'Distributors; ignition coils'], ['', '8511.30.90', '- Other'], ['20', '8511.40', 'Starter motors and dual purpose starter-generators'], ['', '8511.40.30', '-Starter motors for vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['', '8511.40.90', '-Other'], ['21', '8512.20', 'Other lighting or visual signalling equipment'], ['', '8512.20.10', '-For motor cars, assembled'], ['', '8512.20.20', '-Unassembled lighting or visual signaling equipment'], ['22', '8512.30', 'Sound signalling equipment, of a kind used for cycles and motor vehicles'], ['', '8512.30.10', '-Horns and sirens, assembled'], ['', '8512.30.90', '-Other'], ['23', '8536.50', 'Other switches'], ['', '8536.50.90', '-Other'], ['24', '8536.90', 'Other apparatus for switching or protecting electrical circuits, or for making\nconnections to or in electrical circuits (for example, switches, relays, fuses, surge\nsuppressors, plugs, sockets, lamp-holders, junction boxes), for a voltage not\nexceeding 1,000 volts'], ['', '8536.90.90', '-Other'], ['25', '8544.30', 'Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets of a kind used in vehicles, aircraft or ships'], ['', '8544.30.10', '-Wiring harnesses for motor vehicles'], ['26', '8544.41', 'Other electric conductors, for a voltage not exceeding 80 V, fitted with connectors,\nnes'], ['', '8544.41.91', '--Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section not exceeding 300 mm2'], ['', '8544.41.92', '--Plastic insulated electric cable having a cross section exceeding 300 mm2'], ['', '8544.41.93', '--Plastic insulated electric conductors'], ['', '8544.41.94', '--Controlling cables'], ['', '8544.41.95', '--Battery cables'], ['', '8544.41.99', '--Other'], ['27', '8707.10', 'Bodies (including cabs), for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05, for the\nvehicles of heading 87.03:'], ['', '8707.10.90', '-Other'], ['28', '8707.90', 'Other bodies (including cabs), for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05:'], ['', '8707.90.19', '-Other'], ['', '8707.90.21', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '8707.90.29', '-Other'], ['', '8707.90.90', '-Other'], ['29', '8708.10', 'Bumpers and parts thereof, of the motor vehicles of headings 8701 to 87.05'], ['30', '8708.21', 'Safety seat belts, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['31', '8708.31', 'Mounted brake linings, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['32', '8708.40', 'Gear boxes, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['33', '8708.50', 'Drive-axles with differential, whether or not provided with other transmission\ncomponents, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['34', '8708.70', 'Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof, of the motor vehicles of headings\n87.01 to 87.05'], ['35', '8708.80', 'Suspension shock-absorbers, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['36', '8708.91', 'Radiators, of vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['37', '8708.92', 'Silencers and exhaust pipes, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['38', '8708.93', 'Clutches and parts thereof, of the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['39', '8708.94', 'Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes, of the motor vehicles of\nheadings 87.01 to 87.05'], ['40', '9401.20', 'Seats of a kind used for motor vehicles']]
 APPENDIX 2 HIGHLY SENSITIVE LIST   GROUP E: Tariff lines exempted from tariff concession   Viet Nam:  
[['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '24021000', '- Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco'], ['2', '240220', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco:'], ['', '24022010', '-Beedies'], ['', '24022090', '-Other'], ['3', '240290', '- Other:'], ['', '24029010', '-Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos of tobacco substitutes'], ['', '24029020', '-Cigarettes of tobacco substitutes'], ['4', '240310', '- Smoking tobacco, whether or not containing tobacco substitutes in any\nproportion:'], ['', '24031011', '-Blended tobacco'], ['', '24031019', '-Other'], ['', '24031021', '-Blended tobacco'], ['', '24031029', '-Other'], ['', '24031090', '-Other'], ['5', '24039100', '-"Homogenised" or "reconstituted" tobacco'], ['6', '240399', '-Other:'], ['', '24039910', '-Tobacco extracts and essences'], ['', '24039930', '-Manufactured tobacco substitutes'], ['', '24039940', '-Snuff'], ['', '24039950', '-Smokeless tobacco, including chewing and sucking tobacco'], ['', '24039960', '-Ang Hoon'], ['', '24039990', '-Other'], ['7', '72091600', '-Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm'], ['8', '72091700', '-Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding 1 mm'], ['9', '720918', '-Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm:'], ['', '72091810', '-Tin-mill blackplate (TMBP)'], ['', '72091890', '-Other'], ['10', '72101200', '-Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm'], ['11', '840732', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc:'], ['', '84073221', '--Exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 110 cc'], ['', '84073222', '--Exceeding 110 cc but not exceeding 125 cc'], ['', '84073229', '--Exceeding 125 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['12', '840733', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '84073320', '-For the vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '84073390', '-Other'], ['13', '840734', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '84073413', '--For vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '84073419', '--Other'], ['', '84073421', '--For vehicles of heading 87.01'], ['', '84073422', '--For vehicles of heading 87.11'], ['', '84073429', '--Other:'], ['14', '870210', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel):'], ['', '87021006', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 t'], ['', '87021007', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6t'], ['', '87021008', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 18t'], ['', '87021009', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 18 t but not exceeding 24t'], ['', '87021010', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24t'], ['', '87021015', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5t'], ['', '87021016', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6 t'], ['', '87021017', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021018', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021026', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 t'], ['', '87021027', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6 t'], ['', '87021028', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 18 t'], ['', '87021031', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 18 t but not exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021032', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021037', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 t'], ['', '87021038', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6 t'], ['', '87021039', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021040', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021056', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 t'], ['', '87021057', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6 t'], ['', '87021058', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 18 t'], ['', '87021059', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 18 t but not exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021060', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021065', '--Of a gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5 t'], ['', '87021066', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 6 t'], ['', '87021067', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 6 t but not exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87021068', '--Of a gross vehicle weight exceeding 24 t'], ['15', '870290', '- Other:'], ['', '87029012', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87029022', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87029032', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87029042', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87029062', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87029092', '--CBU/Other'], ['16', '870310', '- Vehicles specially designed for travelling on snow; golf cars and similar\nvehicles:'], ['', '87031011', '-Golf cars and golf buggies'], ['', '87031012', '-Go-karts'], ['', '87031019', '-Other'], ['', '87031091', '-Golf cars and golf buggies'], ['', '87031099', '-Other'], ['17', '870321', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc:'], ['', '87032132', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87032142', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032144', '--Other'], ['', '87032152', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032154', '--Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '87032156', '--Other'], ['18', '870322', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['', '87032220', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '87032252', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87032262', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032264', '--Other'], ['', '87032272', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032274', '--Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '87032276', '--Other'], ['19', '870323', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc:'], ['', '87032312', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '87032321', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032322', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032323', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032324', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '87032331', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032332', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032333', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032334', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '87032341', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032342', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032343', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032344', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '87032351', '---Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032352', '---Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032353', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032354', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '87032361', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032362', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032363', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032364', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['', '87032371', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87032372', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87032373', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87032374', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above'], ['20', '870324', 'Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc:'], ['', '87032412', '--Motor-homes'], ['', '87032422', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87032432', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032434', '--Other'], ['', '87032442', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032444', '--Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '87032446', '--Other'], ['', '87032452', '--Motor-homes'], ['', '87032462', '--CBU/Other'], ['', '87032472', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032474', '--Other'], ['', '87032482', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87032484', '--Motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars), CBU/Other'], ['', '87032486', '--Other'], ['21', '870331', '-Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc:'], ['', '87033120', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '87033152', '--New'], ['', '87033162', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033164', '--Other'], ['', '87033172', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033174', '--New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '87033177', '--Other'], ['22', '870332', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc:'], ['', '87033212', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '87033223', '--New'], ['', '87033234', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87033235', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87033236', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '87033244', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87033245', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87033246', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '87033253', '---New'], ['', '87033264', '---Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87033265', '---Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87033266', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['', '87033274', '---Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87033275', '---Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87033276', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above'], ['23', '870333', '-Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc:'], ['', '87033312', '--Motor-homes'], ['', '87033322', '--CBU/Other, new'], ['', '87033325', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033327', '--Other'], ['', '87033329', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033331', '--New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '87033334', '--Other'], ['', '87033342', '--Motor-homes'], ['', '87033352', '--CBU/Other, new'], ['', '87033355', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033357', '--Other'], ['', '87033359', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033362', '--New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['', '87033365', '--Other'], ['', '87033372', '--Motor-homes'], ['', '87033382', '--CBU/Other, new'], ['', '87033385', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033387', '--Other'], ['', '87033389', '--Four wheel drive vehicles, CBU/Other'], ['', '87033392', '--New motor cars (including station wagons, sports cars and racing cars),\nCBU/Other'], ['24', '870390', '- Other:'], ['', '87039012', '-Motor-homes'], ['', '87039021', '-Electric-powered'], ['', '87039026', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039027', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039028', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039031', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039032', '--Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '87039037', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039038', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039041', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039042', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039043', '--Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '87039048', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039051', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039052', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039053', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039054', '--Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '87039061', '--Electric-powered'], ['', '87039066', '---Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039067', '---Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039068', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039071', '---Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039072', '---Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '87039077', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039078', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039081', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039082', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039083', '--Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['', '87039088', '--Of a cylinder capacity less than 1,800 cc'], ['', '87039091', '--Of a cylinder capacity 1,800 cc and above but less than 2,000 cc'], ['', '87039092', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,000 cc and above but less than 2,500 cc'], ['', '87039093', '--Of a cylinder capacity 2,500 cc and above but less than 3,000 cc'], ['', '87039094', '--Of a cylinder capacity 3,000 cc and above'], ['25', '870410', '- Dumpers designed for off-highway use:'], ['', '87041021', '-g.v.w. exceeding 24 t'], ['', '87041022', '-g.v.w. not exceeding 24 t'], ['26', '870421', '-g.v.w not exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '87042121', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87042122', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042123', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042124', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042125', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042126', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042129', '--Other'], ['27', '870422', '-g.v.w exceeding 5 t but not exceeding 20 t:'], ['', '87042244', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042245', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042246', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042249', '--Other'], ['', '87042252', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042253', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042254', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042255', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042256', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042259', '--Other'], ['', '87042261', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87042262', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87042263', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87042264', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87042265', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87042266', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87042269', '--Other'], ['28', '870431', '-g.w.w not exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '87043121', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043122', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043123', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043124', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87043125', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043126', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043127', '--Three-wheeled light trucks of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 356 cc and a\npayload capacity not exceeding 350 kg'], ['', '87043129', '--Other'], ['29', '870432', '-g.v.w. exceeding 5 t:'], ['', '87043254', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043255', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043256', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043257', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87043258', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043261', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043262', '--Other'], ['', '87043263', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043264', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043265', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043266', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87043267', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043268', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043269', '--Other'], ['', '87043271', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043272', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043273', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043275', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043276', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043277', '--Other'], ['', '87043278', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043281', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043282', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043283', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87043284', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043285', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043286', '--Other'], ['', '87043287', '--Refrigerated vans'], ['', '87043288', '--Refuse collection vehicles having refuse compressing device'], ['', '87043291', '--Tanker vehicles'], ['', '87043292', '--Designed for the transport of concrete or cement in bulk'], ['', '87043293', '--Other vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87043294', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87043295', '--Other'], ['30', '870490', '- Other:'], ['', '87049041', '--Vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87049042', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87049049', '--Other'], ['', '87049051', '--Vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87049052', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87049059', '--Other'], ['', '87049061', '--Vans, pick-up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['', '87049062', '--Ordinary lorries (trucks)'], ['', '87049069', '--Other'], ['31', '870600', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.'], ['', '87060021', '-For vehicles of subheading 8702.10'], ['', '87060022', '-For vehicles of subheading 8702.90'], ['', '87060031', '-For ambulances'], ['', '87060039', '-Other'], ['', '87060041', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '87060049', '-Other'], ['', '87060050', '- For vehicles of heading 87.05'], ['32', '870710', '- For the vehicles of heading 87.03:'], ['', '87071010', '-For ambulances'], ['', '87071090', '-Other'], ['33', '870790', '- Other:'], ['', '87079021', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10'], ['', '87079029', '-Other'], ['', '87079030', '-For vehicles of heading 87.05'], ['', '87079090', '-Other'], ['34', '870840', '- Gear boxes:'], ['', '87084013', '-For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87084014', '-For ambulances'], ['', '87084015', '-For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87084016', '-For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87084017', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87084019', '-Other'], ['', '87084023', '-For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87084024', '-For ambulances'], ['', '87084025', '-For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87084026', '-For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87084027', '-For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '87084029', '-Other'], ['35', '870892', '-Silencers and exhaust pipes:'], ['', '87089213', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87089214', '--For ambulances'], ['', '87089215', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87089216', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87089217', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or heading 87.05'], ['', '87089219', '--Other'], ['', '87089293', '--For vehicles of headings 87.02 and 87.04 (except subheading 8704.10)'], ['', '87089294', '--For ambulances'], ['', '87089295', '--For vehicles of subheadings 8703.21 to 8703.23, 8703.31 or 8703.32 (except\nambulances)'], ['', '87089296', '--For vehicles of subheading 8703.24 or 8703.33 (except ambulances)'], ['', '87089297', '--For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 or 87.05'], ['', '87089299', '--Other'], ['36', '871110', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 50 cc:'], ['', '87111010', '-Mopeds'], ['', '87111021', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87111022', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87111029', '-Other'], ['', '87111031', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87111032', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87111039', '-Other'], ['37', '871120', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc:'], ['', '87112010', '-Mopeds'], ['', '87112020', '-Motorcross motorcycles'], ['', '87112031', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112032', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112033', '-Other'], ['', '87112034', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112035', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112036', '-Other'], ['', '87112037', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112038', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112039', '-Other'], ['', '87112041', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112042', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112043', '-Other'], ['', '87112044', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112045', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112046', '-Other'], ['', '87112047', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112048', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112049', '-Other'], ['', '87112051', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112052', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112053', '-Other'], ['', '87112054', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87112055', '-Other motor cycles, with or without side-cars'], ['', '87112056', '-Other'], ['38', '871130', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500 cc:'], ['', '87113010', '-Motorcross motorcycles'], ['', '87113020', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '87113030', '-Other, CBU/Other'], ['39', '871140', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 500 cc but not exceeding 800 cc:'], ['', '87114010', '-Motorcross motorcycles'], ['', '87114020', '-Other, CKD'], ['', '87114030', '-Other, CBU/Other'], ['40', '871190', '- Other:'], ['', '87119010', '-Mopeds'], ['', '87119020', '-Motor scooters'], ['', '87119030', '-Other cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor with or without side-cars'], ['', '87119040', '-Side-cars'], ['', '87119091', '--Not exceeding 200 cc'], ['', '87119092', '--Exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['', '87119093', '--Exceeding 500 cc but not exceeding 800 cc'], ['', '87119094', '--Exceeding 800 cc'], ['', '87119095', '--Not exceeding 200 cc'], ['', '87119096', '--Exceeding 200 cc but not exceeding 500 cc'], ['', '87119097', '--Exceeding 500 cc but not exceeding 800 cc'], ['', '87119098', '--Exceeding 800 cc']]
   ANNEX 3 RULES OF ORIGIN     In determining the origin of a good eligible for preferential tariff treatment pursuant to Article 5 of this Agreement, the following Rules shall apply:   Rule 1 Definitions  For the purposes of this Annex:  CIF means the value of the good imported, and includes the cost of freight and insurance up to the port or place of entry into the country of importation;   FOB means the free-on-board value of a good, inclusive of the cost of transport from the producer to the port or site of final shipment abroad;  goods shall include materials or products, which can be wholly obtained or produced, even if they are intended for later use as materials in another production process. For the purposes of this Annex, the terms “goods” and “products” can be used interchangeably and the terms “good” and “product” shall be interpreted accordingly;  Harmonized System means the nomenclature of the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System defined in the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System including all legal notes thereto, as in force and as amended from time to time;  identical and interchangeable materials means materials being of the same kind and commercial quality, possessing the same technical and physical characteristics, and which once they are incorporated into the finished good cannot be distinguished from one another for origin purposes by virtue of any markings, etc.;  materials shall include ingredients, raw materials, parts, components, sub-assemblies used in the production process;  non-originating goods means products or materials that do not qualify as originating under this Annex;  originating goods means products or materials that qualify as originating under this Annex;  
packing materials and containers for transportation means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation, different from those materials or containers used for its retail sale;  preferential tariff treatment means tariff concessions granted to originating goods as reflected by the tariff rates applicable under this Agreement;  Product Specific Rules means the rules that specify that the materials have undergone a change in tariff classification or a specific manufacturing or processing operation, or satisfy a regional value content or a combination of any of these criteria;  production means methods of obtaining a good including growing, mining, harvesting, raising, breeding, extracting, gathering, collecting, capturing, fishing, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, producing, processing or assembling a good; and  third country means a non-Party or a Party which is not an importing or exporting Party, and the phrase “third countries” shall be interpreted accordingly.   Rule 2  Origin Criteria  1. For the purposes of this Agreement, a good imported into the territory of a Party shall be deemed to be originating and eligible for preferential tariff treatment if it conforms to the origin requirements under any one of the following:  (a) a good which is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of the exporting Party as set out and defined in Rule 3; or  (b) a good not wholly obtained or produced in the territory of the exporting Party, provided that the said good is eligible under Rule 4 or 5 or 6 or 7.  2. Except as provided for in Rule 7, the conditions for acquiring originating status set out in this Annex must be fulfilled without interruption in the territory of the exporting Party.   Rule 3 Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods  Within the meaning of paragraph 1(a) of Rule 2, the following shall be considered to be wholly obtained or produced in the territory of a Party:  (a) plants and plant products harvested, picked or gathered after being grown there;  (b) live animals born and raised there; 
(c) goods obtained from live animals referred to in sub-paragraph (b);  (d) goods obtained from hunting, trapping, fishing, aquaculture, gathering or capturing conducted there;  (e) minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not included in sub-paragraphs (a) through (d), extracted or taken from its soil, waters, seabed or beneath its seabed;  (f) products of sea-fishing taken by vessels registered with the Party and entitled to fly its flag, and other products taken by the Party or a person of that Party, from the waters, seabed or beneath the seabed outside the territorial waters of the Party, provided that the Party has the rights to exploit the natural resources of such waters, seabed and beneath the seabed under international law;  (g) products of sea-fishing and other marine products taken from the high seas by vessels registered with the Party and entitled to fly its flag;  (h) goods produced and/or made on board factory ships registered with a Party and entitled to fly its flag, exclusively from products referred to in sub-paragraph (g);  (i) goods taken from outer space provided that they are obtained by the Party or a person of that Party;  (j) articles collected from there which can no longer perform their original purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and are fit only for the disposal or recovery of parts of raw materials, or for recycling purposes;  (k) waste and scrap derived from:  (i) production there; or  (ii) used goods collected there, provided that such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; and  (l) goods obtained or produced in the territory of the Party solely from goods referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) through (k).                                                    
Rule 4 Not Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods   1. For the purposes of paragraph 1(b) of Rule 2, a good, except those covered under Rule 5 as provided for in Appendix 2, shall be deemed to be originating if the regional value content (hereinafter referred to as the “RVC”) is not less than 40% of the FOB value or if a good has undergone a change in tariff classification at four digit-level (change of tariff heading) of the Harmonized System.  2. The formula for calculating the RVC shall be:  (a) Build-Up Method        VOM RVC = ----------------------- x 100%       FOB  VOM means value of originating materials, which includes the value of originating materials, direct labour cost, direct overhead cost, transportation cost and profit  (b) Build-Down Method                   FOB - VNM RVC = ------------------------- x 100%        FOB   VNM means value of non-originating materials, which shall be: (i) the CIF value at the time of importation of the materials, parts or goods; or (ii) the earliest ascertained price paid for the materials, parts or goods of undetermined origin in the territory of the Party where the working or processing has taken place   Rule 5  Product Specific Rules  For the purposes of Rule 2, goods which satisfy the Product Specific Rules provided in Appendix 2 shall be considered to be originating in the territory of the Party where working or processing of the goods has taken place.                                                     
Rule 6 Treatment for Certain Goods   Notwithstanding Rules 2, 4 and 5, certain goods shall be considered to be originating even if the production process or operation has been undertaken in an area outside the territories of Korea and ASEAN Member Countries (i.e. industrial zone) on materials exported from a Party and subsequently re-imported to that Party.  The application of this Rule, including the list of products and the specific procedures related to this application shall be mutually agreed upon by the Parties.   Rule 7  Accumulation  Unless otherwise provided for in this Annex, a good originating in the territory of a Party, which is used in the territory of another Party as material for a finished good eligible for preferential tariff treatment, shall be considered to be originating in the territory of the latter Party where working or processing of the finished good has taken place.   Rule 8 Non-Qualifying Operations  1. Notwithstanding any provisions in this Annex, a good shall not be considered to be originating in the territory of a Party if the following operations are undertaken exclusively by itself or in combination in the territory of that Party:  (a) preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in good condition during transport and storage;  (b) changes of packaging, breaking-up and assembly of packages;  (c) simplewashing, cleaning, removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings;  (d) simple painting and polishing operations;  (e) husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing and glazing of cereals and rice;  (f) operations to colour sugar or form sugar lumps;  (g) simple peeling, stoning, or un-shelling;  (h) sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting;                                                  
 (i) sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching;  (j) simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards and all other simple packaging operations;  (k) affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging;  (l) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds;  (m) simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or disassembly of products into parts;   (n) simple testing or calibrations; or  (o) slaughtering of animals  2. A good originating in the territory of a Party shall retain its initial originating status, when exported from another Party, where operations undertaken have not gone beyond those referred to in paragraph 1.   Rule 9 Direct Consignment  1. Preferential tariff treatment shall be applied to a good satisfying the requirements of this Annex and which is transported directly between the territories of the exporting Party and the importing Party.  2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a good of which transport involves transit through one or more intermediate third countries, other than the territories of the exporting Party and the importing Party, shall be considered to be consigned directly, provided that:  (a) the transit is justified for geographical reason or by consideration related exclusively to transport requirement;  (b) the good has not entered into trade or consumption there; and                                                   
(c) the good has not undergone any operation other than unloading and reloading or any operation required to keep it in good condition. Rule 10 De Minimis  1. A good that does not undergo a change in tariff classification shall be considered as originating if:  (a) for a good, other than that provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, the value of all non-originating materials used in its production that do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed ten (10) percent of the FOB value of the good;   (b) for a good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, the weight of all non-originating materials used in its production that do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed ten (10) percent of the total weight of the good;  and the good specified in sub-paragraph (a) and (b) meets all other applicable criteria set forth in this Annex for qualifying as an originating good.  2. The value of non-originating materials referred to in paragraph 1 shall, however, be included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable RVC requirement for the good.   Rule 11 Treatment of Packaging and Packing Materials  1. (a) If a good is subject to the RVC criterion as set out in Rule 4, the value of the packaging and packing materials for retail sale shall be taken into account in its determination of origin, where the packaging and packing materials are considered to be forming a whole with the good.  (b) Where sub-paragraph (a) is not applicable, the packaging and packing materials for retail sale, when classified together with the packaged good, shall not be taken into account in considering whether all non-originating materials used in the manufacture of the good fulfil the criterion corresponding to a change in tariff classification of the said good.  2. Packing materials and containers for transportation of a good shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of the good.   Rule 12 Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  
The origin of accessories, spare parts, tools, and instructional or other informational materials presented with a good shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of the good, provided that such accessories, spare parts, tools, and instructional or other informational materials are classified with the good and their customs duties are collected with the good by the importing Party.   Rule 13 Neutral Elements  In order to determine whether a good originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its production and not incorporated into the good:  (a) fuel and energy;  (b) tools, dies and moulds;  (c) spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;  (d) lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings;  (e) gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies;  (f) equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good; and  (g) any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but of which use in the production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production.   Rule 14 Identical and Interchangeable Materials  1. For the purposes of establishing the origin of a good, when the good is manufactured utilising originating and non-originating materials, mixed or physically combined, the origin of such materials can be determined by generally accepted accounting principles of inventory management practiced in the territory of the exporting Party.  2. Once a decision has been taken on the inventory management method, that method shall be used throughout the fiscal year.    
Rule 15 Certificate of Origin  A claim that a good shall be accepted as eligible for preferential tariff treatment shall be supported by a Certificate of Origin issued by a competent authority designated by the exporting Party and notified to all the other Parties in accordance with the Operational Certification Procedures, as set out in Appendix 1.   Rule 16 Consultations, Review and Modification  1. The Parties shall consult regularly to ensure that the Rules in this Annex are administered effectively, uniformly and consistently in order to achieve the spirit and objectives of this Annex.  2. This Annex may be reviewed and modified as and when necessary upon request of a Party and may be open to such reviews and modifications as may be agreed upon in the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement.   Rule 17 Institutional Arrangement  Subject to Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement, the Korea-ASEAN Rules of Origin Committee shall be established and be responsible for administering and enforcing the general rules of origin and customs procedures as provided for in this Annex and endeavour to resolve any differences arising therefrom.   Rule 18 Settlement of Disputes  1. In the case of differences concerning origin determination, classification of a good or other matters relevant to the implementation of this Annex, the government authorities concerned of the importing Party and the exporting Party shall consult each other with a view to resolving the differences, and the result shall be notified to all the other Parties for information.  2. Where no mutually satisfactory solution to the differences has been reached through the consultations mentioned in paragraph 1, the Party concerned may invoke the dispute settlement procedures as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement. 
   APPENDIX 1 OPERATIONAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES  FOR THE RULES OF ORIGIN     For the purposes of implementing Annex 3, the following operational procedures on the issuance of a Certificate of Origin, verification of origin and other related administrative matters shall be observed:   DEFINITIONS  Rule 1  For the purposes of this Appendix:  back-to-back Certificate of Origin means a Certificate of Origin issued by an intermediate exporting Party based on the Certificate of Origin issued by the first exporting Party;   customs authority means the competent authority that is responsible under the law of a Party for the administration of customs laws and regulations;  exporter means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party from where a good is exported by such a person;  importer means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party into where a good is imported by such a person; and  issuing authority means the competent authority designated by the government of the exporting Party to issue a Certificate of Origin and notified to all the other Parties in accordance with this Appendix.  producer means a natural or juridical person who carries out production as set out in Rule 1 of Annex 3 in the territory of a Party.                                                       
ISSUING AUTHORITIES  Rule 2  1. Each Party shall provide the names, addresses, specimen signatures and specimen of official seals of its issuing authorities to all the other Parties, through the ASEAN Secretariat.  Any change in the said list shall be promptly provided in the same manner. 2. Any Certificate of Origin issued by an official not included in the said list shall not be honoured by the customs authority.   Rule 3  For the purposes of determining originating status, the issuing authorities shall have the right to request for supporting documentary evidence or to carry out the check considered appropriate in accordance with a Party’s respective domestic laws and regulations.   ISSUANCE OF A CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN  Rule 4  1. The producer and/or exporter of the good, or its authorised representative, shall apply to the issuing authority, in accordance with the Party’s domestic laws and regulations, requesting for pre-exportation examination of the origin of the good.  The result of the examination, subject to review periodically or whenever appropriate, shall be accepted as the supporting evidence in determining the origin of the said good to be exported thereafter.  The pre-exportation examination may not apply to the good of which, by its nature, origin can be easily determined.  2. The producer and/or exporter or its authorised representative shall apply for a Certificate of Origin together with appropriate supporting documents proving that the good to be exported qualifies for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin, consistent with the domestic laws and regulations of the Party.  3. The issuing authority shall, to the best of its competence and ability, carry out proper examination, in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the Party, upon each application for a Certification of Origin to ensure that:  (a) the Certificate of Origin is duly completed and signed by the authorised signatory;  (b) the origin of the good is in conformity with Annex 3;  (c) other statements in the Certificate of Origin correspond to supporting documentary evidence submitted; and 
 (d) the description, quantity and weight of the good, marks and number of packages, number and kinds of packages, as specified, conform to the good to be exported.  4. Multiple items declared on the same Certificate of Origin, shall be allowed, provided that each item must qualify separately in its own right.   Rule 5  1. A Certificate of Origin shall be on A4 size paper and shall be in the form attached and referred to as Form AK.  It shall be in the English language.  2. A Certificate of Origin shall comprise one original and two (2) copies.  The colors of the original and the copies of a Certificate of Origin shall be mutually agreed upon by the Parties.  3. A Certificate of Origin shall bear a reference number separately given by each place or office of issuance.  4. The original copy shall be forwarded by the producer and/or exporter to the importer for submission to the customs authority of the importing Party.  The duplicate shall be retained by the issuing authority of the exporting Party.  The triplicate shall be retained by the producer and/or exporter.   5. The issuing authority shall endeavour to periodically provide records of issuance of Certificates of Origin, including issuing number and date, producer and/or exporter and description of goods, to the customs authority of the importing Party.  6. In cases where a Certificate of Origin is rejected by the customs authority of the importing Party, the subject Certificate of Origin shall be marked accordingly in box 4 and the original Certificate of Origin shall be returned to the issuing authority within a reasonable period but not exceeding two (2) months.  The issuing authority shall be duly notified of the grounds for the denial of preferential tariff treatment.  7. In cases where a Certificate of Origin is not accepted, as stated in paragraph 6, the customs authority of the importing Party, as it deems fit, should accept the clarifications made by the issuing authority to accept the Certificate of Origin and reinstate the preferential tariff treatment.  The clarifications should be detailed and exhaustive in addressing the grounds for denial of preferential tariff treatment raised by the importing Party.   Rule 6  Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed on a Certificate of Origin.  Any alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials and making any addition 
required.  Such alterations shall be approved by an official authorised to sign a Certificate of Origin and certified by the issuing authority. Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any subsequent addition.   Rule 7  1. A Certificate of Origin shall be issued at the time of exportation or soon thereafter whenever the good to be exported can be considered to be originating in the territory of the exporting Party within the meaning of Annex 3.  2. The issuing authority of the intermediate Party may issue a back-to-back Certificate of Origin, if an application is made by the exporter while the good is passing through its territory, provided that:  (a) a valid original Certificate of Origin is presented;  (b) the importer of the intermediate Party and the exporter who applies for the back-to-back Certificate of Origin in the intermediate Party are the same; and  (c) verification procedures as set out in Rule 14 is applied.  3.  Upon request of a Party, the Parties shall review the provisions of this Rule and the implementation thereof, and revise it as may be mutually agreed upon by the Parties.  4. In exceptional cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued at the time of exportation or soon thereafter due to involuntary errors, omissions or other valid causes, a Certificate of Origin may be issued retroactively but no later than one year from the date of shipment, bearing the words “ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”.   Rule 8  In the event of theft, loss or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the producer and/or exporter may apply to the issuing authority for a certified true copy of the original to be made out on the basis of the export documents in its possession bearing the endorsement of the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” in box 12 of a Certificate of Origin.  This copy shall bear the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin.  The certified true copy of a Certificate of Origin shall be issued no later than one year from the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin.   PRESENTATION  Rule 9  For the purposes of claiming preferential tariff treatment, the importer shall submit to 
the customs authority of the importing Party at the time of import, a declaration, a Certificate of Origin including supporting documents (i.e. invoices and, when required, the through Bill of Lading issued in the territory of the exporting Party) and other documents as required in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the importing Party.   Rule 10  1. The Certificate of Origin shall, in accordance with domestic laws and regulations, be submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party within six (6) months from the date of issuance by the issuing authority of the exporting Party or the intermediate exporting Party in the case of back-to-back Certificate of Origin.  2. Where the Certificate of Origin is submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party after the expiration of the time-limit as stated in paragraph 1 for its submission, such Certificate of Origin shall be accepted when the failure to observe such time-limit results from force majeure or other valid causes beyond the control of the producer and/or exporter.  3. In all cases, the customs authority of the importing Party may accept such Certificate of Origin, provided that the good has been imported before the expiration of the time-limit of the said Certificate of Origin.   Rule 11  A Certificate of Origin shall not be required for:  (a) a good originating in the territory of a Party which does not exceed US$ 200.00 FOB; or  (b) a good sent by post from the territory of a Party which does not exceed US$ 200.00 FOB,   provided that the importation does not form part of one or more importations that may reasonably be considered to have been undertaken or arranged for the purpose of avoiding the submission of a Certificate of Origin.   Rule 12  1. Where the origin of a good is not in doubt, the discovery of minor discrepancies, between the statements made in a Certificate of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the good shall not ipso facto invalidate the Certificate of Origin, if it does in fact correspond to the good submitted.  
2. For multiple items declared under the same Certificate of Origin, a problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or delay the granting of preferential tariff treatment and customs clearance of the remaining items listed in that Certificate of Origin.  Paragraph 1(c) of Rule 14 may be applied to the problematic items.   RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT  Rule 13  1. For the purposes of the verification process pursuant to Rules 14 and 15, the producer and/or exporter applying for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin shall, subject to the domestic laws and regulations of the exporting Party, keep its supporting records for application for not less than three (3) years from the date of issuance of the Certificate of Origin.  2. The importer shall keep records relevant to the importation in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the importing Party.  3. The application for Certificates of Origin and all documents related to such application shall be retained by the issuing authority for not less than three (3) years from the date of issuance.  4. Information relating to the validity of a Certificate of Origin shall be furnished upon request of the importing Party by an official authorised to sign a Certificate of Origin and certified by the appropriate government authorities.  5. Any information communicated between the Parties concerned shall be treated as confidential and shall be used for the validation of Certificates of Origin purpose only.   VERIFICATION  Rule 14  1. The importing Party may request the issuing authority of the exporting Party to conduct a retroactive check at random and/or when the importing Party has reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the good in question or of certain parts thereof.  Upon such request, the issuing authority of the exporting Party shall conduct a retroactive check on a producer’s and/or exporter’s cost statement based on the current cost and prices                                                  
within a six-month timeframe of the specified date of exportation, subject to the following procedures:  (a) the request of the importing Party for a retroactive check shall be accompanied with the Certificate of Origin concerned and shall specify the reasons and any additional information suggesting that the particulars given on the said Certificate of Origin may be inaccurate, unless the retroactive check is requested on a random basis;  (b) the issuing authority of the exporting Party receiving a request for retroactive check shall respond to the request promptly and reply within two (2) months after receipt of the request;  (c) the customs authority of the importing Party may suspend provision of preferential tariff treatment while awaiting the result of verification. However, it may release the good to the importer subject to any administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that they are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion of fraud; and  (d) the issuing authority shall promptly transmit the results of the verification process to the importing Party which shall then determine whether or not the subject good is originating.  The entire process for retroactive check, including the process of notifying the issuing authority of the exporting Party the result of determination on whether or not the good is originating, shall be completed within six (6) months.  While the process of the retroactive check is being undertaken, sub-paragraph (c) shall be applied.  2. The customs authority of the importing Party may request an importer for information or documents relating to the origin of imported good in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations before requesting the retroactive check pursuant to paragraph 1.   Rule 15  1. If the importing Party is not satisfied with the outcome of the retroactive check, it may, under exceptional circumstances, request verification visits to the exporting Party.  2. Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to paragraph 1:  (a) an importing Party shall deliver a written notification of its intention to conduct the verification visit simultaneously to:                                                  
 (i) the producer and/or exporter whose premises are to be visited;  (ii) the issuing authority of the Party in the territory of which the verification visit is to occur;  (iii) the customs authority of the Party in  the territory of which the verification visit is to occur; and  (iv) the importer of the good subject to the verification visit;  (b) the written notification mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) shall be as comprehensive as possible and shall include, among others:   (i) the name of the customs authority issuing the notification;  (ii) the name of the producer and/or exporter whose premises are to be visited;  (iii) the proposed date of the verification visit;  (iv) the coverage of the proposed verification visit, including reference to the good subject to the verification; and  (v) the names and designation of the officials performing the verification visit;  (c) an importing Party shall obtain the written consent of the producer and/or exporter whose premises are to be visited;  (d) when a written consent from the producer and/or exporter is not obtained within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notification pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), the notifying Party may deny preferential tariff treatment to the good referred to in the said Certificate of Origin that would have been subject to the verification visit; and  (e)  the issuing authority receiving the notification may postpone the proposed verification visit and notify the importing Party of such intention within fifteen (15) days from the date of receipt of the notification.  Notwithstanding any postponement, any verification visit shall be carried out within sixty (60) days from the date of such receipt, or a longer period as the Parties may agree.  3. The Party conducting the verification visit shall provide the producer and/or exporter, whose good is subject to such verification, and the relevant issuing authority with a written determination of whether or not the good subject to such verification qualifies as an originating good.   
4. Any suspended preferential tariff treatment shall be reinstated upon the written determination referred to in paragraph 3 that the good qualifies as an originating good.  5. The producer and/or exporter shall be allowed thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the written determination to provide in writing comments or additional information regarding the eligibility of the good for preferential tariff treatment.  If the good is still found to be non-originating, the final written determination shall be communicated to the issuing authority within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the comments/additional information from the producer and/or exporter.  6. The verification visit process, including the actual visit and the determination under paragraph 3 whether the good subject to such verification is originating or not, shall be carried out and its results communicated to the issuing authority within a maximum period of six (6) months from the first day the initial verification visit was conducted.  While the process of verification is being undertaken, paragraph 1(c) of Rule 14 shall be applied.   Rule 16  1. The Parties shall maintain, in accordance with their respective domestic laws and regulations, the confidentiality of classified business information collected in the process of verification pursuant to Rules 14 and 15 and shall protect that information from disclosure that could prejudice the competitive position of the person who provided the information.   2. Subject to the domestic laws and regulations, and agreement of the Parties, classified information may only be disclosed by the authorities of one Party to another, for the administration and enforcement of origin determination.   DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL TARIFF TREATMENT   Rule 17  Except as otherwise provided in this Appendix, the importing Party may deny claim for preferential tariff treatment or recover unpaid duties in accordance with its laws and regulations, where the good does not meet the requirements of Annex 3, or where the relevant requirements of this Appendix are not fulfilled.   SPECIAL CASES  Rule 18  When destination of all or parts of the good exported to the territory of a specified Party is changed, before or after its arrival in the territory of that Party, the following shall be observed:  
(a) even if the good is already imported into the territory of a specified importing Party, the customs authority of that importing Party shall endorse the Certificate of Origin to the effect for all or parts of the good in case where the importer makes a written application for the preferential tariff treatment along with the submission of the original Certificate of Origin; and  (b) if the changing of destination occurs during transportation to the territory of the importing Party as specified in the Certificate of Origin, the producer and/or exporter shall apply in writing, accompanied with the issued Certificate of Origin, for a new issuance for all or parts of the good.   Rule 19  For the purposes of implementing Rule 9 of Annex 3, where transportation is effected through the territory of one or more intermediate countries, other than that of the exporting Party and the importing Party, the following shall be produced to the relevant government authorities of the importing Party:  (a) a through Bill of Lading issued in the territory of the exporting Party;  (b) a Certificate of Origin;  (c) a copy of the original commercial invoice in respect of the good; and   (d) other relevant supporting documents, if any, as evidence that the requirements of Rule 9 of Annex 3 are being complied with.   Rule 20  1. Notwithstanding Rule 9 of Annex 3, a good sent from the territory of the exporting Party for exhibition in another country and sold during or after the exhibition for importation into the territory of a Party shall be granted preferential tariff treatment on the condition that the good meets the requirements as set out in Annex 3, provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authority of the importing Party that:   (a) an exporter has dispatched the good from the territory of the exporting Party to the country where the exhibition has been held and has exhibited it there;  (b) the exporter has sold the goods or transferred it to a consignee in the territory of the importing Party; and  
(c) the good has been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to the territory of the importing Party in the state in which it was sent for the exhibition.  2. For the purposes of implementing paragraph 1, a Certificate of Origin shall be provided to the relevant government authorities of the importing Party.  The name and address of the exhibition shall be indicated.  As an evidence for the identification of the good and the conditions under which it was exhibited, a certificate issued by the relevant government authorities of the country where the exhibition took place together with supporting documents prescribed in sub-paragraph (d) of Rule 19 may be required.  3. Paragraph 1 shall apply to any trade, agricultural or crafts exhibition, fair or similar show or display in shops or business premises with a view to the sale of foreign good and where the good remains under customs control during the exhibition.   Rule 21  1. Customs authority in the importing Party may accept Certificates of Origin in cases where the sales invoice is issued either by a company located in a third country or by an exporter for the account of the said company, provided that the good meets the requirements of Annex 3.  2. The exporter of the goods shall indicate “third country invoicing” and such information as name and country of the company issuing the invoice in the Certificate of Origin.    ACTION AGAINST FRAUDULENT ACTS  Rule 22  1. When it is suspected that fraudulent acts in connection with a Certificate of Origin have been committed, the government authorities concerned shall cooperate in the action to be taken by a Party against the persons involved.  2. Each Party shall provide legal sanctions for fraudulent acts related to a Certificate of Origin.   CUSTOMS CONTACT POINT  Rule 23  1. Each Party shall designate a contact point for all matters relating to this Appendix.  
2. When the contact point of a Party raises any matter arising from Annex 3 to the contact point of any other Party, the customs authority of the latter Party shall assign its own experts to look into the matter and to respond with its findings and proposed solution for resolving the matter within a reasonable period of time.  3. The contact points shall endeavor to resolve any matter raised under Annex 3 through consultations. 
 Original (Duplicate/Triplicate/Quadruplicate) 
[["1. Goods consigned from (Exporter's business name,\naddress, country)", None, None, 'Reference No.\nKOREA-ASEAN FREE TRADE AREA\nPREFERENTIAL TARIFF\nCERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN\n(Combined Declaration and Certificate)\nFORM AK\nIssued in ______________\n(Country)\nSee Notes Overleaf', None, None, None, None, None], ["2. Goods consigned to (Consignee's name, address,\ncountry)", None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ["3. Means of transport and route (as far as known)\nDeparture date\nVessel's name/Aircraft etc.\nPort of Discharge", None, None, '4. For Official Use\nPreferential Treatment Given Under Korea-ASEAN\nFree Trade Area Preferential Tariff\nPreferential Treatment Not Given (Please\nstate reason/s)\n..................................................................................\nSignature of Authorised Signatory of the Importing\nCountry', None, None, None, None, None], ['5. Item\nnumber', '6. Marks and\nnumbers on\npackages', '7. Number and type of\npackages, description of\ngoods (including quantity\nwhere appropriate and HS\nnumber of the importing\ncountry)', None, '8. Origin criterion\n(see Notes\noverleaf)', '', '', '', '10. Number and\ndate of\nInvoices'], [None, None, None, None, None, '9. Gross\nweight or\nother quantity\nand value\n(FOB)', None, None, None], ['', '', '', None, '', '', None, None, ''], ['11. Declaration by the exporter\nThe undersigned hereby declares that the above\ndetails and statement are correct; that all the goods\nwere produced in\n.............................................................\n(Country)\nand that they comply with the origin requirements\nspecified for these goods in the KOREA-ASEAN\nFree Trade Area Preferential Tariff for the goods\nexported to\n.............................................................\n(Importing Country)\n.............................................................\nPlace and date, signature of\nauthorised signatory', None, None, '12. Certification\nIt is hereby certified, on the basis of control\ncarried out, that the declaration by the\nexporter is correct.\n................................................................................\nPlace and date, signature and stamp of\ncertifying authority', None, None, None, None, None], ['13.\n□ Third Country Invoicing □ Exhibition □ Back-to-Back CO', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
OVERLEAF NOTES  1. Parties which accept this form for the purpose of preferential tariff under the KOREA-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement (KAFTA):   BRUNEI DARUSSALAM  CAMBODIA    INDONESIA REPUBLIC OF KOREA  LAOS    MALAYSIA MYANMAR    PHILIPPINES   SINGAPORE THAILAND    VIETNAM   2. CONDITIONS:  To enjoy preferential tariff under the KAFTA, goods sent to any Parties listed above:  (i) must fall within a description of goods eligible for concessions in the country of destination;   (ii) must comply with the consignment conditions in accordance with Rule 9 of Annex 3 (Rules of Origin) of the KAFTA; and  (iii) must comply with the origin criteria in Annex 3 (Rules of Origin) of the KAFTA.  3. ORIGIN CRITERIA: For goods that meet the origin criteria, the exporter and/or producer must indicate in box 8 of this Form, the origin criteria met, in the manner shown in the following table: 
[['Circumstances of production or manufacture in the first country named in\nbox 11 of this form', 'Insert in box 8'], ['Goods wholly obtained or produced in the territory of the exporting Party', '”WO”'], ['(b) Goods satisfying Rule 4.1 of Annex 3 (Rules of Origin) of the AKFTA', '“CTH” or\n“RVC 40%”'], ['(c) Goods satisfying the Product Specific Rules\n- Change in Tariff Classification\n- Wholly Obtained or Produced in the territory of any Party\n- Regional Value Content\n- Regional Value Content + Change in Tariff Classification\n- Specific Processes', '- “CTC”\n- “WO-AK”\n- “RVC” that needs to be met for the good to\nqualify as originating; e.g. “RVC 45%”\n- The combination rule that needs to be met for\ngood to qualify as originating; e.g. “CTH +\nRVC 40%”\n“Specific Processes”'], ['(d) Goods satisfying Rule 6', '“Rule 6”']]
4. EACH ARTICLE MUST QUALIFY: It should be noted that all the goods in a consignment must qualify separately in their own right. This is of particular relevance when similar articles of different sizes or spare parts are sent.  5. DESCRIPTION OF GOODS: The description of goods must be sufficiently detailed to enable the goods to be identified by the Customs Officers examining them. Name of manufacturer, any trade mark shall also be specified.  6. HARMONIZED SYSTEM NUMBER: The Harmonized System number shall be that of the importing Party.  7. EXPORTER: The term “Exporter” in box 11 may include the manufacturer or the producer.  8. FOR OFFICIAL USE: The Customs Authority of the importing Party must indicate (√) in the relevant boxes in column 4 whether or not preferential tariff is accorded.    9. THIRD COUNTRY INVOICING: In cases where invoices are issued by a third country, “the Third Country Invoicing” box should be ticke(cid:1627) (√) and such informations as name and country of the company issuing the invoice shall be indicated in box 7.    10. EXHIBITIONS: In cases where goods are sent from the territory of the exporting Party for exhibition in another country and sold during or after the exhibition for importation into the territory of a Party, in accordance with Rule 20 of the Operational Certification Procedures, the “Exhibitions” box should be ticked (√) and the name and address of the exhibition indicated in box 2.  11. BACK-TO-BACK CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN: In cases of Back-to-Back CO, in accordance with Rule 7 (2) of the Operational Certification Procedures, the “Back-to-Back CO” box should be ticked (√).   
APPENDIX 2 PRODUCT SPECIFIC RULES   
[['', '', None, None, '', ''], ['Serial\nNo', 'Harmonized System Code', None, None, 'Product Description', 'Origin Conferring Criteria'], ['', 'Section I – Live Animals; Animal Products', None, None, None, None], ['1', 'Chapter\n01', '', '', 'Live Animals', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['2', 'Chapter\n02', '', '', 'Meat and Edible Meat Offal', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n03', '', '', 'Fish and Crustaceans, Molluscs and\nOther Aquatic Invertebrates', ''], ['3', '', '03.01', '', 'Live fish.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['4', '', '03.02', '', 'Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish\nfillets and other fish meat of heading\n03.04.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['5', '', '03.03', '', 'Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets and\nother fish meat of heading 03.04.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '03.04', '', 'Fish fillets and other fish meat (whether\nor not minced), fresh, chilled or frozen.', ''], ['6', '', '', '0304.10', '- Fresh or chilled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['7', '', '', '0304.20', '- Frozen fillets', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['8', '', '', '0304.90', '- Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '03.05', '', 'Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked\nfish, whether or not cooked before or\nduring the smoking process; flours,\nmeals and pellets of fish, fit for human\nconsumption.', ''], ['9', '', '', '0305.10', '- Flours, meals and pellets of fish, fit for\nhuman consumption', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['10', '', '', '0305.20', '- Livers and roes of fish, dried, smoked,\nsalted or in brine', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['11', '', '', '0305.30', '- Fish fillets, dried, salted or in brine but\nnot smoked', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Smoked fish, including fillets', ''], ['12', '', '', '0305.41', '- - Pacific Salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch,Oncorhynchus\nmasou, and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube\nsalmon (Hucho hucho)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['13', '', '', '0305.42', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['14', '', '', '0305.49', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Dried fish, whether or not salted but not\nsmoked', ''], ['15', '', '', '0305.51', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['16', '', '', '0305.59', '- - Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Fish, salted but not dried or smoked and\nfish in brine', ''], ['17', '', '', '0305.61', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['18', '', '', '0305.62', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['19', '', '', '0305.63', '- - Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['20', '', '', '0305.69', '- - Other', 'A regional value content of not'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'less than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '03.06', '', 'Crustaceans, whether in shell or not,\nlive, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried,salted or\nin brine; crustaceans, in shell, cooked by\nsteaming or by boiling in water, whether\nor not chilled, frozen, dried, salted or in\nbrine; flours, meals and pellets of\ncrustaceans, fit for human consumption.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Frozen', ''], ['21', '', '', '0306.11', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp.,Jasus spp.)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['22', '', '', '0306.12', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['23', '', '', '0306.13', '- - Shrimps and prawns', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['24', '', '', '0306.14', '- - Crabs', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['25', '', '', '0306.19', '- - Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Not frozen', ''], ['26', '', '', '0306.21', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus spp.)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['27', '', '', '0306.22', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['28', '', '', '0306.23', '- - Shrimps and prawns', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['29', '', '', '0306.24', '- - Crabs', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['30', '', '', '0306.29', '- - Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', 'consumption', ''], ['', '', '03.07', '', 'Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live,\nfresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted or in\nbrine; aquatic invertebrates other than\ncrustaceans and molluscs, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine;\nflours, meals and pellets of aquatic\ninvertebrates other than crustaceans, fit\nfor human consumption.', ''], ['31', '', '', '0307.10', '- Oysters', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Scallops, including queen scallops, of the\ngenera Pecten, Chlamys or Placopecten', ''], ['32', '', '', '0307.21', '- - Live, fresh or chilled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['33', '', '', '0307.29', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Mussels (Mytilus spp., Perna spp.)', ''], ['34', '', '', '0307.31', '- - Live, fresh or chilled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['35', '', '', '0307.39', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.)', ''], ['36', '', '', '0307.41', '- - Live, fresh or chilled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['37', '', '', '0307.49', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Octopus (Octopus spp.)', ''], ['39', '', '', '0307.59', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['40', '', '', '0307.60', '- Snails, other than sea snails', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other, including flours, meals and pellets\nof aquatic invertebrates other than\ncrustaceans, fit for human consumption', ''], ['41', '', '', '0307.91', '- - Live, fresh or chilled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['42', '', '', '0307.99', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n04', '', '', 'Dairy Produce; Birds Eggs; Natural\nHoney; Edible Products of', ''], ['', '', '04.01', '', 'Animal Origin, Not Elsewhere Specified\nor Included', ''], ['43', '', '', '0401.10', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding\n1%', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['44', '', '', '0401.20', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1%\nbut not exceeding 6%', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['45', '', '', '0401.30', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6%', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['46', '', '04.02', '', 'Milk and cream, concentrated or\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['47', '', '04.03', '', 'Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream,\nyogurt, kephir and other fermented or\nacidified milk and cream, whether or not\nconcentrated or containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter or flavoured\nor containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa.', 'Change to Heading 04.03 from\nany other Heading, provided that\nproducts of 04.03 do not contain\nmaterials of / from milk imported\nfrom a non-Party over 50% by\nweight of the total raw material of\n/ from milk; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 45 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['', '', '04.04', '', 'Whey, whether or not concentrated or\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter; products consisting\nof natural milk constituents, whether or\nnot containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter, not elsewhere', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'specified or included.', ''], ['48', '', '', '0404.10', '- Whey and modified whey, whether or not\nconcentrated or containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['49', '', '', '0404.90', '- Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['50', '', '04.05', '', 'Butter and other fats and oils derived\nfrom milk; dairy spreads.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '04.06', '', 'Cheese and curd.', ''], ['51', '', '', '0406.10', '- Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese\nincluding whey cheese, and curd', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['52', '', '', '0406.20', '- Grated or powdered cheese, of all kinds', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['53', '', '', '0406.30', '- Processed cheese, not grated or powdered', 'Change to Subheading 0406.30\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat products of 0406.30 do not\ncontain materials of / from milk\nimported from a non-Party over\n50% by weight of the total raw\nmaterial of / from milk; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['54', '', '', '0406.40', '- Blue-veined cheese', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['55', '', '', '0406.90', '- Other cheese', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['56', '', '04.07', '', "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or\ncooked.", 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['57', '', '04.08', '', "Birds' eggs, not in shell, and egg yolks,\nfresh, dried, cooked by steaming or by\nboiling in water, moulded, frozen or\notherwise preserved, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.", 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['58', '', '04.09', '', 'Natural honey.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['59', '', '04.10', '', 'Edible products of animal origin, not\nelsewhere specified or included', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['60', 'Chapter\n05', '', '', 'Products of Animal Origin, Not\nElsewhere Specified or Included', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Section II – Vegetable Products', None, None, None, None], ['61', 'Chapter\n06', '', '', 'Live Trees and Other Plants; Bulbs,\nRoots and the Like; Cut Flowers and\nOrnamental Foliage', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['62', 'Chapter\n07', '', '', 'Edible Vegetables and Certain Roots\nand Tubers', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n08', '', '', 'Edible Fruit and Nuts; Peel of Citrus\nFruit or Melons', ''], ['', '', '08.01', '', 'Coconuts, Brazil nuts and cashew nuts,\nfresh or dried, whether or not shelled or\npeeled.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Coconuts', ''], ['63', '', '', '0801.11', '- - Desiccated', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['64', '', '', '0801.19', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Brazil nuts', ''], ['65', '', '', '0801.21', '- - In shell', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['66', '', '', '0801.22', '- - Shelled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Cashew nuts', ''], ['67', '', '', '0801.31', '- - In shell', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['68', '', '', '0801.32', '- - Shelled', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['69', '', '08.02', '', 'Other nuts, fresh or dried, whether or\nnot shelled or peeled.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['70', '', '08.03', '', 'Bananas, including plantains, fresh or\ndried.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '08.04', '', 'Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados, guavas,\nmangoes and mangosteens, fresh or\ndried.', ''], ['71', '', '', '0804.10', '- Dates', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['72', '', '', '0804.20', '- Figs', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['73', '', '', '0804.30', '- Pineapples', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['74', '', '', '0804.40', '- Avocados', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['75', '', '', '0804.50', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['76', '', '08.05', '', 'Citrus fruit, fresh or dried.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['77', '', '08.06', '', 'Grapes, fresh or dried.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['78', '', '08.07', '', 'Melons (including watermelons) and\npapaws (papayas), fresh.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['79', '', '08.08', '', 'Apples, pears and quinces, fresh.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['80', '', '08.09', '', 'Apricots, cherries, peaches (including\nnectarines), plums and sloes, fresh.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['81', '', '08.10', '', 'Other fruit, fresh.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['82', '', '08.11', '', 'Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by\nsteaming or boiling in water, frozen,\nwhether or not containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['83', '', '08.12', '', 'Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved\n(for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in\nbrine, in sulphur water or in other\npreservative solutions), but unsuitable in\nthat state for immediate consumption.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '08.13', '', 'Fruit, dried, other than that of headings\n08.01 to 08.06; mixtures of nuts or dried\nfruit of this Chapter.', ''], ['84', '', '', '0813.10', '- Apricots', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['85', '', '', '0813.20', '- Prunes', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['86', '', '', '0813.30', '- Apples', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['87', '', '', '0813.40', '- Other fruit', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['88', '', '', '0813.50', '- Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this\nChapter', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['89', '', '08.14', '', 'Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including\nwatermelons), fresh, frozen, dried, or\nprovisionally preserved in brine, in\nsulphur water or in other preservative\nsolutions.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n09', '', '', 'Coffee, Tea, Mate and Spices', ''], ['', '', '09.01', '', 'Coffee, whether or not roasted or\ndecaffeinated; coffee husks and skins;\ncoffee substitutes containing coffee in\nany proportion.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Coffee, not roasted', ''], ['90', '', '', '0901.11', '- - Not decaffeinated', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['91', '', '', '0901.12', '- - Decaffeinated', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Coffee, roasted', ''], ['92', '', '', '0901.21', '- - Not decaffeinated', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['93', '', '', '0901.22', '- - Decaffeinated', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['94', '', '', '0901.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['95', '', '09.02', '', 'Tea, whether or not flavoured.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['96', '', '09.03', '', 'Maté.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '09.04', '', 'Pepper of the genus Piper; dried or\ncrushed or ground fruits of the genus\nCapsicum or the genus Pimenta.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Pepper', ''], ['97', '', '', '0904.11', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['98', '', '', '0904.12', '- - Crushed or ground', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['99', '', '', '0904.20', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the\ngenus Pimenta, dried or crushed or ground', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['100', '', '09.05', '', 'Vanilla.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '09.06', '', 'Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers.', ''], ['101', '', '', '0906.10', '- Neither crushed nor ground', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['102', '', '', '0906.20', '- Crushed or ground', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['103', '', '09.07', '', 'Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems).', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['104', '', '09.08', '', 'Nutmeg, mace and cardamoms.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['105', '', '09.09', '', 'Seeds of anise, badian, fennel, coriander,\ncumin or caraway; juniper berries.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '09.10', '', 'Ginger, saffron turmeric (curcuma),\nthyme, bay leaves, curry and other\nspices.', ''], ['106', '', '', '0910.10', '- Ginger', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['107', '', '', '0910.20', '- Saffron', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['108', '', '', '0910.30', '- Turmeric (curcuma)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['109', '', '', '0910.40', '- Thyme; bay leaves', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['110', '', '', '0910.50', '- Curry', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other spices', ''], ['111', '', '', '0910.91', '- - Mixtures referred to in Note 1 to this\nChapter', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['112', '', '', '0910.99', '- - Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['113', 'Chapter\n10', '', '', 'Cereals', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n11', '', '', 'Products of the Milling Industry; Malt;\nStarches; Inulin; Wheat Gluten', ''], ['114', '', '11.01', '', 'Wheat or meslin flour.', 'Change to Heading 11.01 from\nany other Chapter'], ['', '', '11.02', '', 'Cereal flours other than of wheat or\nmeslin.', ''], ['115', '', '', '1102.10', '- Rye flour', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['116', '', '', '1102.20', '- Maize (corn) flour', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['117', '', '', '1102.30', '- Rice flour', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['118', '', '', '1102.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 1102.90\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Headings\n10.03 and 10.06 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials of Headings 10.03 and\n10.06 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['', '', '11.03', '', 'Cereal groats, meal and pellets.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Groats and meal', ''], ['119', '', '', '1103.11', '- - Of wheat', 'Change to Subheading 1103.11\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['120', '', '', '1103.13', '- - Of maize (corn)', 'Change to Subheading 1103.13\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['121', '', '', '1103.19', '- - Of other cereals', 'Change to Subheading 1103.19\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Headings\n10.03 and 10.06 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials of Headings 10.03 and\n10.06 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['122', '', '', '1103.20', '- Pellets', 'Change to Subheading 1103.20\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Headings\n10.03 and 10.06 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials of Headings 10.03 and\n10.06 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['', '', '11.04', '', 'Cereal grains otherwise worked (for\nexample, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled,\nsliced or kibbled), except rice of heading\n10.06; germ of cereals, whole, rolled,\nflaked or ground.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Rolled or flaked grains', ''], ['123', '', '', '1104.12', '- - Of oats', 'Change to Subheading 1104.12\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['124', '', '', '1104.19', '- - Of other cereals', 'Change to Subheading 1104.19\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Headings\n10.03 and 10.06 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials of Headings 10.03 and\n10.06 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other worked grains (for example, hulled,\npearled, sliced or kibbled)', ''], ['125', '', '', '1104.22', '- - Of oats', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['126', '', '', '1104.23', '- - Of maize (corn)', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['127', '', '', '1104.29', '- - Of other cereals', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['128', '', '', '1104.30', '- Germ of cereals, whole, rolled, flaked or\nground', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '11.05', '', 'Flour, meal, powder, flakes, granules\nand pellets of potatoes.', ''], ['129', '', '', '1105.10', '- Flour, meal and powder', 'Change to Subheading 1105.10\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['130', '', '', '1105.20', '- Flakes, granules and pellets', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['131', '', '11.06', '', 'Flour, meal and powder of the dried\nleguminous vegetables of heading 07.13,\nof sago or of roots or tubers of heading\n07.14 or of the products of Chapter 8.', 'Change to Heading 11.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', '', '11.07', '', 'Malt, whether or not roasted.', ''], ['132', '', '', '1107.10', '- Not roasted', 'Change to Subheading 1107.10\nfrom any other Chapter'], ['133', '', '', '1107.20', '- Roasted', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['134', '', '11.08', '', 'Starches; inulin.', 'Change to Heading 11.08 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['135', '', '11.09', '', 'Wheat gluten, whether or not dried.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['136', 'Chapter\n12', '', '', 'Oil Seeds and Oleaginous Fruits;\nMiscellaneous Grains, Seeds and Fruit;\nIndustrial or Medicinal Plants; Straw\nand Fodder', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n13', '', '', 'Lac; Gums; Resins and Other Vegetable\nSaps and Extracts', ''], ['137', '', '13.01', '', 'Lac, natural gums, resins, gum-resins\nand oleoresins (for example balsams).', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '13.02', '', 'Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic\nsubstances, pectinates and pectates;\nagar-agar and other mucilages and\nthickeners, whether or not modified,\nderived from vegetable products.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Vegetable saps and extracts', ''], ['138', '', '', '1302.11', '- - Opium', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['139', '', '', '1302.12', '- - Of liquorice', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['140', '', '', '1302.13', '- - Of hops', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['141', '', '', '1302.14', '- - Of pyrethrum or of the roots of plants\ncontaining rotenone', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['142', '', '', '1302.19', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['143', '', '', '1302.20', '- Pectic substances, pectinates and pectates', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not\nmodified, derived from vegetable products', ''], ['144', '', '', '1302.31', '- - Agar-agar', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 70 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['145', '', '', '1302.32', '- - Mucilages and thickeners, whether or\nnot modified, derived from locust beans,\nlocust bean seeds or guar seeds', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['146', '', '', '1302.39', '- - Other', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['147', 'Chapter\n14', '', '', 'Vegetable Plaiting Materials; Vegetable\nProducts Not Elsewhere Specified or\nIncluded', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Section III – Animal or Vegetable Fats and Oils and Their Cleavage Products; Prepared Edible Fats; Animal or Vegetable Waxes', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n15', '', '', 'Animal or Vegetable Fats and Oils and\nTheir Cleavage Products; Prepared\nEdible Fats; Animal or Vegetable Waxes', ''], ['', '', '15.15', '', 'Other fixed vegetable fats and oils\n(including jojoba oil) and their fractions,\nwhether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', ''], ['148', '', '', '1515.50', '- Sesame oil and its fractions', 'Change to Subheading 1515.50\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapter 12 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that\nmaterials from Chapter 12 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '15.17', '', 'Margarine, edible mixtures or', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'preparations of animal or vegetable fat\nor oils or of fractions of different fats or\noils of this Chapter, other than edible\nfats or oils or their fractions of heading\n15.16.', ''], ['149', '', '', '1517.10', '- Margarine, excluding liquid margarine', 'Change to Subheading 1517.10\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat it has a regional value content\nof not less than 40 percent of the\nFOB value of the good'], ['150', '', '', '1517.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['151', '', '15.18', '', 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils and\ntheir fractions, boiled, oxidized,\ndehydrated, sulphurised, blown,\npolymerised by heat in vacuum or in\ninert gas, or otherwise chemically\nmodified, excluding those of heading\n15.16; inedible mixtures or preparations\nof animals or vegetable fats or oils or of\nfractions of different fats or oils of this\nChapter, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', 'Change to Heading 15.18 from\nany other Chapter, provided that it\nhas a regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', 'Section IV – Prepared Foodstuffs; Beverages, Spirits and Vinegar; Tobacco and Manufactured Tobacco Substitutes', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n16', '', '', 'Preparations of Meat, of fish or of\nCrustaceans, Molluscs or Other Aquatic\nInvertebrates', ''], ['152', '', '16.01', '', 'Sausages and similar products, of meat,\nmeat offal or blood; food preparations\nbased on these products.', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '16.02', '', 'Other prepared or preserved meat, meat\noffal or blood.', ''], ['153', '', '', '1602.20', '- Of liver of any animal', 'Change to Subheading 1602.20\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'value content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Of poultry of heading 01.05', ''], ['154', '', '', '1602.31', '- - Of turkeys', 'Change to Subheading 1602.31\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of the exporting Party'], ['155', '', '', '1602.32', '- - Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 60 percent of the FOB\nvalue, provided that materials\nfrom Chapters 1, 2 and 5 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['156', '', '', '1602.39', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 1602.39\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Of swine', ''], ['157', '', '', '1602.41', '- - Hams and cuts thereof', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['158', '', '', '1602.42', '- - Shoulders and cuts thereof', 'Change to Subheading 1602.42\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of the exporting Party'], ['159', '', '', '1602.49', '- - Other, including mixtures', 'Change to Subheading 1602.49\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'territory of the exporting Party'], ['160', '', '', '1602.50', '- Of bovine animals', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['161', '', '', '1602.90', '- Other, including preparations of blood of\nany animal', 'Change to Subheading 1602.90\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 1, 2\nand 5 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of the\nexporting Party; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood, provided that materials from\nChapters 1, 2 and 5 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '16.04', '', 'Prepared or preserved fish, caviar and\ncaviar substitutes prepared from fish\neggs.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Fish, whole or in pieces, but not minced', ''], ['162', '', '', '1604.11', '- - Salmon', 'Change to Subheading 1604.11\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'of the good'], ['163', '', '', '1604.12', '- - Herrings', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['164', '', '', '1604.13', '- - Sardines, sardinella and brisling or\nsprats', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['165', '', '', '1604.15', '- - Mackerel', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['166', '', '', '1604.16', '- - Anchovies', 'Change to Subheading 1604.16\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 3\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 3 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['167', '', '', '1604.19', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 1604.19\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['168', '', '', '1604.20', '- Other prepared or preserved fish', 'Change to Subheading 1604.20\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['169', '', '', '1604.30', '- Caviar and caviar substitutes', 'Change to Subheading 1604.30\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '16.05', '', 'Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'invertebrates, prepared or preserved.', ''], ['170', '', '', '1605.10', '- Crab', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 35 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['171', '', '', '1605.20', '- Shrimps and prawns', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 35 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['172', '', '', '1605.30', '- Lobster', 'Change to Subheading 1605.30\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 3\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 3 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['173', '', '', '1605.40', '- Other crustaceans', 'Change to Subheading 1605.40\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 3\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 3 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['174', '', '', '1605.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 1605.90\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 3\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 3 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n19', '', '', 'Preparation of Cereals, Flour, Starch or\nMilk; Pastrycooks Products', ''], ['', '', '19.01', '', 'Malt extract; food preparations of flour,\ngroats, meal, starch or malt extract, not\ncontaining cocoa or containing less than\n40% by weight of cocoa calculated on a\ntotally defatted basis, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; food preparations\nof goods of headings 04.01 to 04.04, not\ncontaining cocoa or containing less than\n5% by weight of cocoa calculated on a\ntotally defatted basis, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', ''], ['175', '', '', '1901.10', '- Preparations for infant use, put up for\nretail sale', 'Change to Subheading1901.10\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Headings\n04.01 through 04.04, and Chapters\n10 and 11 are originating in the'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good , provided that\nmaterials from Headings 04.01\nthrough 04.04, and Chapters 10\nand 11 are originating in the\nterritory of any Party'], ['176', '', '', '1901.20', "- Mixes and doughs for the preparation of\nbakers' wares of heading 19.05", 'Change to Subheading 1901.20\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat materials from Chapters 10\nand 11 are originating in the\nterritory of anyParty; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that\nmaterials from Chapters 10 and 11\nare originating in the territory of\nany Party'], ['177', '', '', '1901.90', '- Other', "For Korea's HS Code\n1901.90.2000: Wholly-Obtained\nor Produced in the territory of any\nParty; For others: Change to\nSubheading 1901.90 from any\nother Heading , provided that\nmaterials from Heading 04.01 to\n04.04, and Chapters 10 and 11 are\noriginating in the territory of any\nParty; or A regional value content\nof not less than 40 percent of the\nFOB value of the good , provided\nthat materials from Heading 04.01\nto 04.04, and Chapters 10 and 11\nare originating in the territory of\nany Party"], ['', '', '19.04', '', 'Prepared food obtained by the swelling\nor roasting of cereals or cereal products\n(for example, corn flakes); cereals\n(other than maize (corn)), in grain form\nor in the form of flakes or other worked\ngrains (except flour, groats and meal),\npre-cooked or otherwise prepared, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', ''], ['178', '', '', '1904.90', '- Other', 'For Korea HS 1904.90.1000:\nChange to Subheading 1904.90\nfrom any other Heading, in\nconditions that the de minimis rule\nshall not be applied to a non-\noriginating material imported from\na non-Party used in the production\nof the good unless the non-\noriginating material is provided\nfor in a different sub-heading from\nthat of the good; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood ; Others: Change to\nSubheading 1904.90 from any\nother Heading; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['', '', '19.05', '', "Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other\nbakers' wares, whether or not containing\ncocoa; communion wafers, empty\ncachets of a kind suitable for\npharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice\npaper and similar products.", ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Sweet biscuits; waffles and wafers', ''], ['179', '', '', '1905.31', '- - Sweet biscuits', 'Change to Subheading 1905.31\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['180', '', '', '1905.32', '- - Waffles and wafers', 'Change to Subheading 1905.32\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['181', '', '', '1905.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 1905.90\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n20', '', '', 'Preparations of Vegetables, Fruit, Nuts\nor Other Parts of Plants', ''], ['', '', '20.03', '', 'Mushrooms and truffles, prepared or\npreserved otherwise than by vinegar or\nacetic acid.', ''], ['182', '', '', '2003.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 2003.90\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat it has a regional value content\nof not less than 60 percent of the\nFOB value of the good'], ['', '', '20.05', '', 'Other vegetables prepared or preserved\notherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid,\nnot frozen, other than products of\nheading 20.06.', ''], ['183', '', '', '2005.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of\nvegetables', "For Korea's HS Code\n2005.90.1000: A regional value\ncontent of not less than 60 percent\nof the FOB value; Others: A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good"], ['184', '', '20.06', '', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and\nother parts of plants,preserved by sugar\n(drained, glacé or crystallised)', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', 'whether or not containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter or spirit, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Nuts, ground-nuts and other seeds,\nwhether or not mixed together', ''], ['185', '', '', '2008.11', '- - Ground-nuts', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue, provided that materials\nfrom Chapter 12 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party'], ['186', '', '', '2008.19', '- - Other, including mixtures', 'Change to Subheading 2008.19\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat the material of Heading\n0802.31, 0802.32, 0802.40 and\n0802.90 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty; or A regional value content\nof not less than 40 percent of the\nFOB value of the good, provided\nthat the material of Heading\n0802.31, 0802.32, 0802.40 and\n0802.90 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['187', '', '', '2008.20', '- Pineapples', 'Change to Subheading 2008.20\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 8\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other, including mixtures other than those\nof subheading 20.08.19', ''], ['188', '', '', '2008.92', '- - Mixtures', 'Change to Subheading 2008.92\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['189', '', '', '2008.99', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 2008.99\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '20.09', '', 'Fruit juices (including grape must) and\nvegetable juices, unfermented and not\ncontaining added spirit, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Pineapple juice', ''], ['190', '', '', '2009.41', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'Change to Subheading 2009.41\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['191', '', '', '2009.49', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 2009.49\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials of Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '', '', '- Apple juice', ''], ['192', '', '', '2009.80', '- Juice of any other single fruit or vegetable', 'Change to Subheading 2009.80\nfrom any other Chapter; or A'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'regional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['193', '', '', '2009.90', '- Mixtures of juices', 'Change to Subheading 2009.90\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n21', '', '', 'Miscellaneous Edible Preparations', ''], ['', '', '21.01', '', 'Extracts, essences and concentrates, of\ncoffee, tea or maté and preparations with\na basis of these products or with a basis\nof coffee, tea or maté; roasted chicory\nand other roasted coffee substitutes, and\nextracts, essences and concentrates\nthereof.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of\ncoffee, and preparations with a basis of\nthese extracts, essences or concentrates or\nwith a basis of coffee', ''], ['194', '', '', '2101.20', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea\nor maté, and preparations with a basis of\nthese extracts, essences or concentrates or\nwith a basis of tea or maté', 'Change to Subheading 2101.20\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat the materials of Heading\n09.02 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty; or A regional value content'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'of not less than 40 percent of the\nFOB value of the good, provided\nthat the materials of Heading\n09.02 are Wholly-Obtained or\nProduced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['', '', '21.03', '', 'Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed\ncondiments and mixed seasonings;', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'mustard flour and meal and prepared\nmustard.', ''], ['195', '', '', '2103.90', '- Other', "For Korea's HS Code\n2103.90.1030; 2103.90.9030;\n2103.90.9090: Change to\nSubheading 2103.90 from any\nother Heading, provided that\nmaterials from Chapters 7 and 9\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that\nmaterials from Chapters 7 and 9\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; For\nothers: Change to Subheading\n2103.90 from any other Heading;\nor A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good"], ['', '', '21.06', '', 'Food preparations not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', ''], ['196', '', '', '2106.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good, provided that\nmaterials of Heading 1211.20,\n1212.20 and 1302.19 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party'], ['', 'Chapter\n22', '', '', 'Beverages, Spirits and Vinegar', ''], ['', '', '22.02', '', 'Waters, including mineral waters and\naerated waters, containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter or flavoured,\nand other non-alcoholic beverages, not\nincluding fruit or vegetable juices of\nheading 20.09.', ''], ['197', '', '', '2202.10', '- Waters, including mineral waters and\naerated waters, containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or flavoured', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['198', '', '', '2202.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good, provided that\nmaterials of Subheading 1211.20\nand 1302.19 are Wholly-Obtained\nor Produced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['199', '', '22.03', '', 'Beer made from malt.', 'Change to Heading 22.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', '', '22.04', '', 'Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified\nwines; grape must other than that of\nheading 20.09.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other wine; grape must with fermentation\nprevented or arrested by the addition of alc', ''], ['200', '', '', '2204.21', '- - In containers holding 2 litres or less', 'Change to Subheading 2204.21\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['201', '', '', '2204.29', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 2204.29\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '22.08', '', 'Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an\nalcoholic strength by volume of less than\n80% vol; spirits, liqueurs and other\nspirituous beverages.', ''], ['202', '', '', '2208.20', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine\ngrape marc', 'Change to Subheading 2208.20\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['203', '', '', '2208.30', '- Whiskies', 'Change to Subheading 2208.30\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['204', '', '', '2208.70', '- Liquers and cordials', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good, provided that\nmaterials of Subheading 1211.20\nand 1302.19 are Wholly-Obtained\nor Produced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['', 'Chapter\n23', '', '', 'Residues and Waste from the Food\nIndustries; Prepared Animal Fodder', ''], ['', '', '23.01', '', 'Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or\nmeat offal, of fish or of crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates,\nunfit for human consumption; greaves.', ''], ['205', '', '', '2301.20', '- Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of\ncrustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic inver', 'Change to Subheading 2301.20\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '23.06', '', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form of\npellets, resulting from the extraction of\nvegetable fats or oils, other than those of\nheading23.04 or 23.05.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Of rape or colza seeds', ''], ['206', '', '', '2306.50', '- Of coconut or copra', 'Change to Subheading 2306.50\nfrom any other Chapter, provided\nthat the materials from Chapter 8\nare Wholly-Obtained or Produced\nin the territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['207', '', '23.08', '', 'Vegetable materials and vegetable waste,\nvegetable residues and by-products,\nwhether or not in the form of pellets, of a\nkind used in animal feeding, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', 'Change to Heading 23.08 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe materials from Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials from Chapter 8 are\nWholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of any Party'], ['', '', '23.09', '', 'Preparations of a kind used in animal\nfeeding.', ''], ['208', '', '', '2309.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n24', '', '', 'Tobacco and Manufactured Tobacco\nSubstitutes', ''], ['209', '', '24.01', '', 'Unmanufactured tobacco; tobacco\nrefuse.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '24.02', '', 'Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and\ncigarettes, of tobacco or tobacco\nsubstitutes.', ''], ['210', '', '', '2402.20', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco', 'Change to Subheading 2402.20\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat the value of non-originating\nmaterials of Heading 24.03 does\nnot exceed 60% of the FOB value\nof the good.'], ['', 'Section VI – Products of the Chemical or Allied Industries', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n29', '', '', 'Organic Chemicals', ''], ['', '', '29.21', '', 'Amine-function compounds.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Acyclic polyamines and their derivatives;\nsalts thereof', ''], ['211', '', '', '2921.21', '- - Ethylenediamine and its salts', 'Change to Subheading 2921.21\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['212', '', '', '2921.29', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 2921.29\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '29.22', '', 'Oxygen-function amino-compounds.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Amino-alcohols, other than those\ncontaining more than one kind of oxygen\nfunction, their ethers and esters; salts\nthereof', ''], ['213', '', '', '2922.12', '- - Diethanolamine and its salts', 'Change to Subheading 2922.12\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'of the good'], ['214', '', '', '2922.13', '- - Triethanolamine and its salts', 'Change to Subheading 2922.13\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Amino-acids, other than those containing\nmore than one kind of oxygen function, and\ntheir esters; salts thereof', ''], ['215', '', '', '2922.41', '- - Lysine and its esters; salts thereof', 'Change to Subheading 2922.41\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', 'Quaternary ammonium salts and\nhydroxides; lecithins and other\nphosphoaminolipids, whether or not\nchemically defined', ''], ['216', '', '', '2923.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 2923.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n33', '', '', 'Essential Oils and Resinoids; Perfumery,\nCosmetic or Toilet Preparations', ''], ['', '', '33.01', '', 'Essential oils (terpeneless or not),\nincluding concretes and absolutes;\nresinoids; extracted oleoresins;\nconcentrates of essential oils in fats, in\nfixed oils, or in waxes or the like,\nobtained by enfluerage or maceration;\nterpenic by-products of the\ndeterpenation of essential oils; aqueous\ndistillates and aqueous solutions of\nessential oils.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Essential oils other than those of citrus\nfruit', ''], ['217', '', '', '3301.30', '- Resinoids', 'Change to Subheading 3301.30\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['218', '', '', '3301.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 3301.90\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat the materials of Subheading\n1211.20 and 1302.19 are Wholly-\nObtained or Produced in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good, provided that the\nmaterials of Subheading 1211.20\nand 1302.19 are Wholly-Obtained\nor Produced in the territory of any\nParty'], ['', 'Section VII – Plastics and Articles Thereof; Rubber and Articles Thereof', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n40', '', '', 'Rubber and Articles Thereof', ''], ['', '', '40.11', '', 'New pneumatic tyres, of rubber.', ''], ['219', '', '', '4011.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including\nstation wagons and racing cars)', 'Change to Subheading 4011.10\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat it has a regional value content\nof not less than 55 percent of the\nFOB value of the good'], ['220', '', '', '4011.20', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries', 'Change to Subheading 4011.20\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat it has a regional value content\nof not less than 55 percent of the\nFOB value of the good'], ['221', '', '', '4011.40', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles', 'Change to Subheading 4011.40\nfrom any other Heading, provided\nthat it has a regional value content\nof not less than 55 percent of the\nFOB value of the good'], ['', 'Section VIII – Raw Hides and Skins, Leather, Furskins and Articles Thereof; Saddlery and Harness; Travel Goods, Handbags and Similar\nContainers; Articles of Animal Gut (Other than Silk-worm Gut)', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n42', '', '', 'Articles of Leather; Saddlery and\nHarness; Travel Goods, Handbags and\nSimilar Containers; Articles of Animal\nGut (Other than Silk-worm Gut)', ''], ['', '', '40.23', '', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories, of leather or of composition\nleather.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Gloves, mittens and mitts', ''], ['222', '', '', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in sports', 'Change to Subheading 4203.21\nfrom any other Chapter'], ['', 'Section XI – Textiles and Textile Articles', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n50', '', '', 'Silk', ''], ['223', '', '50.01', '', 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling.', 'Change to Heading 50.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'percent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['224', '', '50.02', '', 'Raw silk (not thrown).', 'Change to Heading 50.02 from'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'any other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['225', '', '50.03', '', 'Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable\nfor reeling, yarn waste and garnetted\nstock).', 'Change to Heading 50.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['226', '', '50.04', '', 'Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk\nwaste) not put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 50.04 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['227', '', '50.05', '', 'Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up\nfor retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 50.05 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['228', '', '50.06', '', 'Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste,\nput up for retail sale; silk-worm gut.', 'Change to Heading 50.06 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 50.04 through 50.05; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['229', '', '50.07', '', 'Woven fabrics of silk or of silk waste.', 'Change to Heading 50.07 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n51', '', '', 'Wool, Fine or Coarse Animal Hair;\nHorsehair Yarn and Woven Fabric', ''], ['230', '', '51.01', '', 'Wool, not carded or combed.', 'Change to Heading 51.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['231', '', '51.02', '', 'Fine or coarse animal hair, not carded or\ncombed.', 'Change to Heading 51.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['232', '', '51.03', '', 'Waste of wool or of fine or coarse animal\nhair, including yarn waste but excluding\ngarnetted stock.', 'Change to Heading 51.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['233', '', '51.04', '', 'Garnetted stock of wool or of fine or\ncoarse animal hair.', 'Change to Heading 51.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['234', '', '51.05', '', 'Wool and fine or coarse animal hair,\ncarded or combed (including combed\nwool in fragments).', 'Change to Heading 51.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['235', '', '51.06', '', 'Yarn of carded wool, not put up for\nretail sale.', 'Change to Heading 51.06 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['236', '', '51.07', '', 'Yarn of combed wool, not put up for\nretail sale.', 'Change to Heading 51.07 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['237', '', '51.08', '', 'Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or\ncombed), not put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 51.08 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['238', '', '51.09', '', 'Yarn of wool or of fine animal hair, put\nup for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 51.09 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 51.06 through 51.08; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['239', '', '51.10', '', 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of\nhorsehair (including gimped horsehair\nyarn), whether or not put up for retail\nsale.', 'Change to Heading 51.10 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['240', '', '51.11', '', 'Woven fabrics of carded wool or of\ncarded fine animal hair.', 'Change to Heading 51.11 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['241', '', '51.12', '', 'Woven fabrics of combed wool or of\ncombed fine animal hair.', 'Change to Heading 51.12 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['242', '', '51.13', '', 'Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair or\nof horsehair.', 'Change to Heading 51.13 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n52', '', '', 'Cotton', ''], ['243', '', '52.01', '', 'Cotton, not carded or combed.', 'Change to Heading 52.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['244', '', '52.02', '', 'Cotton waste (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', 'Change to Heading 52.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['245', '', '52.03', '', 'Cotton, carded or combed.', 'Change to Heading 52.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['246', '', '52.04', '', 'Cotton sewing thread, whether or not\nput up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 52.04 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['247', '', '52.05', '', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread),\ncontaining 85% or more by weight of\ncotton, not put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 52.05 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['248', '', '52.06', '', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread),\ncontaining less than 85% by weight of\ncotton, not put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 52.06 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['249', '', '52.07', '', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread)\nput up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 52.07 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 52.04 through 52.06; or A\nregional value content of not less'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'than 40 percent of FOB value of\nthe good of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n53', '', '', 'Other Vegetable Textile Fibres; Paper\nYarn and Woven Fabrics of Paper Yarn', ''], ['250', '', '53.01', '', 'Flax, raw or processed but not spun; flax\ntow and waste (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', 'Change to Heading 53.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['251', '', '53.02', '', 'True hemp (Cannabis sativa L), raw or\nprocessed but not spun; tow and waste of\ntrue hemp (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', 'Change to Heading 53.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['252', '', '53.03', '', 'Jute and other textile bast fibres\n(excluding flax, true hemp and ramie),\nraw or processed but not spun; tow and\nwaste of these fibres (including yarn\nwaste and garnetted stock).', 'Change to Heading 53.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['253', '', '53.04', '', 'Sisal and other textile fibres of the genus\nAgave, raw or processed but not spun;\ntow and waste of these fibres (including\nyarn waste and garnetted stock).', 'Change to Heading 53.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['254', '', '53.05', '', 'Coconut, abaca (Manila hemp or Musa\ntextilis Nee), ramie and other vegetable\ntextile fibres, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded, raw or processed but not spun;\ntow, noils and waste of these fibres\n(including yarn waste and garnetted\nstock).', 'Change to Heading 53.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['255', '', '53.06', '', 'Flax yarn.', 'Change to Heading 53.06 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['256', '', '53.07', '', 'Yarn of jute or of other textile bast fibres\nof heading 53.03.', 'Change to Heading 53.07 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['257', '', '53.08', '', 'Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres;\npaper yarn.', 'Change to Heading 53.08 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['258', '', '53.09', '', 'Woven fabrics of flax.', 'Change to Heading 53.09 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['259', '', '53.10', '', 'Woven fabrics of jute or of other textile\nbast fibres of heading 53.03', 'Change to Heading 53.10 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['260', '', '53.11', '', 'Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile\nfibres; woven fabrics of paper yarn.', 'Change to Heading 53.11 from\nany other Heading; or Printing or\ndyeing accompanied by at least\ntwo preparatory or finishing\noperations; or A regional value\ncontent of not less than 40 percent\nof the FOB value of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n54', '', '', 'Man-Made Filaments', ''], ['261', '', '54.01', '', 'Sewing thread of man-made filaments,\nwhether or not put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 54.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['262', '', '54.02', '', 'Synthetic filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), not put up for retail sale,\nincluding synthetic monofilament of less\nthan 67 decitex.', 'Change to Heading 54.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['263', '', '54.03', '', 'Artificial filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), not put up for retail sale,\nincluding artificial monofilament of less\nthan 67 decitex.', 'Change to Heading 54.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['264', '', '54.04', '', 'Synthetic monofilament of 67 decitex or\nmore and of which no cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 1 mm; strip and the\nlike (for example, artificial straw) of\nsynthetic textile materials of an apparent\nwidth not exceeding 5 mm.', 'Change to Heading 54.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['265', '', '54.05', '', 'Artificial monofilament of 67 decitex or\nmore and of which no cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 1 mm; strip and the\nlike (for example, artificial straw) of', 'Change to Heading 54.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the'], ['', '', '', '', 'artificial textile materials of an apparent\nwidth not exceeding 5 mm.', 'good'], ['266', '', '54.06', '', 'Man-made filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 54.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n55', '', '', 'Man-Made Staple Fibres', ''], ['267', '', '55.01', '', 'Synthetic filament tow.', 'Change to Heading 55.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['268', '', '55.02', '', 'Artificial filament tow.', 'Change to Heading 55.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['269', '', '55.03', '', 'Synthetic staple fibres, not carded,\ncombed or otherwise processed for\nspinning.', 'Change to Heading 55.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['270', '', '55.04', '', 'Artificial staple fibres, not carded,\ncombed or otherwise processed for\nspinning.', 'Change to Heading 55.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['271', '', '55.05', '', 'Waste (including noils, yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock) of man-made fibres.', 'Change to Heading 55.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['272', '', '55.06', '', 'Synthetic staple fibres, carded, combed\nor otherwise processed for spinning.', 'Change to Heading 55.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['273', '', '55.07', '', 'Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed\nor otherwise processed for spinning.', 'Change to Heading 55.07 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['274', '', '55.08', '', 'Sewing thread of man-made staple\nfibres, whether or not put up for retail\nsale.', 'Change to Heading 55.08 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['275', '', '55.09', '', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of\nsynthetic staple fibres, not put up for\nretail sale', 'Change to Heading 55.09 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['276', '', '55.10', '', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of\nartificial staple fibres, not put up for\nretail sale.', 'Change to Heading 55.10 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['277', '', '55.11', '', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of man-\nmade staple fibres, put up for retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 55.11 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 55.08 through 55.10; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n56', '', '', 'Wadding, Felt and Nonwovens; Special\nYarns; Twine, Cordage, Ropes and\nCables and Articles Thereof', ''], ['278', '', '56.01', '', 'Wadding of textile materials and articles\nthereof; textile fibres, not exceeding 5\nmm in length (flock), textile dust and\nmill neps.', 'Change to Heading 56.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['279', '', '56.02', '', 'Felt, whether or not impregnated,\ncoated, covered or laminated.', 'Change to Heading 56.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['280', '', '56.03', '', 'Nonwovens, whether or not\nimpregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated.', 'Change to Heading 56.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['281', '', '56.04', '', 'Rubber thread and cord, textile covered;\ntextile yarn, and strip and the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, impregnated,\ncoated, covered or sheathed with rubber\nor plastics.', 'Change to Heading 56.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['282', '', '56.05', '', 'Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped,\nbeing textile yarn, or strip or the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, combined with\nmetal in the form of thread, strip or\npowder or covered with metal.', 'Change to Heading 56.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['283', '', '56.06', '', 'Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, gimped (other\nthan those of heading 56.05 and gimped\nhorsehair yarn); chenille yarn (including\nflock chenille yarn); loop wale-yarn.', 'Change to Heading 56.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['284', '', '56.07', '', 'Twine, cordage, ropes and cables,\nwhether or not plaited or braided and\nwhether or not impregnated, coated,\ncovered or sheathed with rubber or\nplastics.', 'Change to Heading 56.07 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['285', '', '56.08', '', 'Knotted netting of twine, cordage or\nrope; made up fishing nets and other\nmade up nets, of textile materials.', 'Change to Heading 56.08 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['286', '', '56.09', '', 'Articles of yarn, strip or the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, twine, cordage,\nrope or cables, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', 'Change to Heading 56.09 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n57', '', '', 'Carpets and Other Textile Floor\nCoverings', ''], ['287', '', '57.01', '', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings,\nknotted, whether or not made up.', 'Change to Heading 57.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['288', '', '57.02', '', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings,\nwoven, not tufted or flocked, whether or\nnot made up, including "Kelem",\n"Schumacks", "Karamanie" and similar\nhand-woven rugs.', 'Change to Heading 57.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['289', '', '57.03', '', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings,\ntufted, whether or not made up.', 'Change to Heading 57.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['290', '', '57.04', '', 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings,\nof felt, not tufted or flocked, whether or\nnot made up.', 'Change to Heading 57.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['291', '', '57.05', '', 'Other carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, whether or not made up.', 'Change to Heading 57.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n58', '', '', 'Special Woven Fabrics; Tufted Textile\nFabrics; Lace; Tapestries; Trimmings;\nEmbroidery', ''], ['292', '', '58.01', '', 'Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics,\nother than fabrics of heading 58.02 or\n58.06.', 'Change to Heading 58.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['293', '', '58.02', '', 'Terry towelling and similar woven terry\nfabrics, other than narrow fabrics of', 'Change to Heading 58.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional'], ['', '', '', '', 'heading 58.06; tufted textile fabrics,\nother than products of heading 57.03.', 'value content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['294', '', '58.03', '', 'Gauze, other than narrow fabrics of\nheading 58.06.', 'Change to Heading 58.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['295', '', '58.04', '', 'Tulles and other net fabrics, not\nincluding woven, knitted or crocheted\nfabrics; lace in the piece, in strips or in\nmotifs, other than fabrics of headings\n60.02 to 60.06.', 'Change to Heading 58.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['296', '', '58.05', '', 'Hand-woven tapestries of the type\nGobelins, Flanders, Aubusson, Beauvais\nand the like, and needle-worked\ntapestries (for example, petit point, cross\nstitch), whether or not made up.', 'Change to Heading 58.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['297', '', '58.06', '', 'Narrow woven fabrics, other than goods\nof heading 58.07; narrow fabrics\nconsisting of warp without weft\nassembled by means of an adhesive\n(bolducs).', 'Change to Heading 58.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['298', '', '58.07', '', 'Labels, badges and similar articles of\ntextile materials, in the piece, in strips or\ncut to shape or size, not embroidered.', 'Change to Heading 58.07 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['299', '', '58.08', '', 'Braids in the piece; ornamental\ntrimmings in the piece, without\nembroidery, other than knitted or\ncrocheted; tassels, pompons and similar\narticles.', 'Change to Heading 58.08 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['300', '', '58.09', '', 'Woven fabrics of metal thread and\nwoven fabrics of metallised yarn of\nheading 56.05, of a kind used in apparel,\nas furnishing fabrics or for similar\npurposes, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', 'Change to Heading 58.09 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['301', '', '58.10', '', 'Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in\nmotifs.', 'Change to Heading 58.10 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['302', '', '58.11', '', 'Quilted textile products in the piece,\ncomposed of one or more layers of textile\nmaterials assembled with padding by', 'Change to Heading 58.11 from\nany other Heading; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40'], ['', '', '', '', 'stitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10.', 'percent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n59', '', '', 'Impregnated, Coated, Covered or\nLaminated Textile Fabrics; Textile\nArticles of a Kind Suitable For\nIndustrial Use', ''], ['303', '', '59.01', '', 'Textile fabrics coated with gum or\namylaceous substances, of a kind used\nfor the outer covers of books or the like;\ntracing cloth; prepared painting canvas;\nbuckram and similar stiffened textile\nfabrics of a kind used for hat\nfoundations.', 'Change to Heading 59.01 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['304', '', '59.02', '', 'Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn of\nnylon or other polyamides, polyesters or\nviscose rayon.', 'Change to Heading 59.02 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['305', '', '59.03', '', 'Textile fabrics impregnated, coated,\ncovered or laminated with plastics, other\nthan those of heading 59.02.', 'Change to Heading 59.03 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['306', '', '59.04', '', 'Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape;\nfloor coverings consisting of a coating or\ncovering applied on a textile backing,\nwhether or not cut to shape.', 'Change to Heading 59.04 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['307', '', '59.05', '', 'Textile wall coverings.', 'Change to Heading 59.05 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['308', '', '59.06', '', 'Rubberised textile fabrics, other than\nthose of heading 59.02.', 'Change to Heading 59.06 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['309', '', '59.07', '', 'Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated,\ncoated or covered; painted canvas being\ntheatrical scenery, studio back-cloths or\nthe like.', 'Change to Heading 59.07 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['310', '', '59.08', '', 'Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted,\nfor lamps, stoves, lighters, candles or the\nlike; incandescent gas mantles and\ntubular knitted gas mantle fabric\ntherefor, whether or not impregnated.', 'Change to Heading 59.08 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['311', '', '59.09', '', 'Textile hosepiping and similar textile\ntubing, with or without lining, armour or\naccessories of other materials.', 'Change to Heading 59.09 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['312', '', '59.10', '', 'Transmission or conveyor belts or\nbelting, of textile material, whether or\nnot impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated with plastics, or reinforced\nwith metal or other material.', 'Change to Heading 59.10 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['313', '', '59.11', '', 'Textile products and articles, for\ntechnical uses, specified in Note 7 to this\nChapter.', 'Change to Heading 59.11 from\nany other Chapter; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n61', '', '', 'Articles of Apparel and Clothing\nAccessories, Knitted or Crocheted', ''], ['314', '', '61.01', '', "Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets and\nsimilar articles, knitted or crocheted,\nother than those of heading 61.03.", 'Change to Heading 61.01 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['315', '', '61.02', '', "Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets and\nsimilar articles, knitted or crocheted,\nother than those of heading 61.04.", 'Change to Heading 61.02 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['316', '', '61.03', '', "Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets,\nblazers, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear), knitted or crocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.03 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['317', '', '61.04', '', "Women's or girls' suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, dresses, skirts, divided\nskirts, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear), knitted or crocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.04 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['318', '', '61.05', '', "Men's or boys' shirts, knitted or\ncrocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.05 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['319', '', '61.06', '', "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and\nshirt-blouses, knitted or crocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.06 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['320', '', '61.07', '', "Men's or boys' underpants, briefs,\nnightshirts, pyjamas, bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.07 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['321', '', '61.08', '', "Women's or girls' slips, petticoats, briefs,\npanties, nightdresses, pyjamas, négligées,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles, knitted or crocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.08 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['322', '', '61.09', '', 'T-shirts, singlets and other vests, knitted\nor crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.09 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['323', '', '61.10', '', 'Jerseys, pullovers, cardigans, waistcoats\nand similar articles, knitted or crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.10 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['324', '', '61.11', '', "Babies' garments and clothing\naccessories, knitted or crocheted.", 'Change to Heading 61.11 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['325', '', '61.12', '', 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear,\nknitted or crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.12 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['326', '', '61.13', '', 'Garments, made up of knitted or\ncrocheted fabrics of heading 59.03, 59.06\nor 59.07.', 'Change to Heading 61.13 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['327', '', '61.14', '', 'Other garments, knitted or crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.14 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['328', '', '61.15', '', 'Panty hose, tights, stockings, socks and\nother hosiery, including stockings for\nvaricose veins and footwear without\napplied soles, knitted or crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.15 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['329', '', '61.16', '', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or\ncrocheted.', 'Change to Heading 61.16 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['330', '', '61.17', '', 'Other made up clothing accessories,\nknitted or crocheted; knitted or\ncrocheted parts of garments or of\nclothing accessories.', 'Change to Heading 61.17 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n62', '', '', 'Articles of Apparel and Clothing\nAccessories, Not Knitted or Crocheted', ''], ['331', '', '62.01', '', "Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets and\nsimilar articles, other than those of\nheading 62.03.", 'Change to Heading 62.01 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['332', '', '62.02', '', "Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets and\nsimilar articles, knitted or crocheted,\nother than those of heading 61.04.", 'Change to Heading 62.02 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['333', '', '62.03', '', "Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets,\nblazers, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear).", 'Change to Heading 62.03 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['334', '', '62.04', '', "Women's or girls' suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, dresses, skirts, divided\nskirts, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear).", 'Change to Heading 62.04 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'than 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['335', '', '62.05', '', "Men's or boys' shirts.", 'Change to Heading 62.05 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['336', '', '62.06', '', "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and\nshirt-blouses.", 'Change to Heading 62.06 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['337', '', '62.07', '', "Men's or boys' singlets and other vests,\nunderpants, briefs, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles.", 'Change to Heading 62.07 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['338', '', '62.08', '', "Women's or girls' singlets and other\nvests, slips, petticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, négligées,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles.", 'Change to Heading 62.08 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['339', '', '62.09', '', "Babies' garments and clothing\naccessories.", 'Change to Heading 62.09 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['340', '', '62.10', '', 'Garments, made up of fabrics of heading\n56.02, 56.03, 59.03, 59.06 or 59.07.', 'Change to Heading 62.10 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['341', '', '62.11', '', 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear;\nother garments.', 'Change to Heading 62.11 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['342', '', '62.12', '', 'Brassières, girdles, corsets, braces,\nsuspenders, garters and similar articles\nand parts thereof, whether or not knitted\nor crocheted.', 'Change to Heading 62.12 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['343', '', '62.13', '', 'Handkerchiefs.', 'Change to Heading 62.13 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are originating and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of the exporting Party; or\nA regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['344', '', '62.14', '', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils\nand the like.', 'Change to Heading 62.14 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'through 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are originating and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of the exporting Party; or\nA regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['345', '', '62.15', '', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats.', 'Change to Heading 62.15 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['346', '', '62.16', '', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.', 'Change to Heading 62.16 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['347', '', '62.17', '', 'Other made up clothing accessories;\nparts of garments or of clothing\naccessories, other than those of heading\n62.12.', 'Change to Heading 62.17 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe good is both cut and sewn in\nthe territory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'than 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n63', '', '', 'Other made up textile articles; sets; worn\nclothing and worn textile articles; rags', ''], ['348', '', '63.01', '', 'Blankets and travelling rugs.', 'Change to Heading 63.01 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['349', '', '63.02', '', 'Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and\nkitchen linen.', 'Change to Heading 63.02 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['350', '', '63.03', '', 'Curtains (including drapes) and interior\nblinds; curtain or bed valances.', 'Change to Heading 63.03 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07-54.08, 55.12\nthrough 55.16, 58.01 through\n58.02, 60.01 through 60.06 are\norignating in the territory of any\nParty and the good is both cut and\nsewn in the territory of any Party;\nor A regional value content of not\nless than 40 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['351', '', '63.04', '', 'Other furnishing articles, excluding\nthose of heading 94.04.', 'Change to Heading 63.04 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['352', '', '63.05', '', 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the\npacking of goods.', 'Change to Heading 63.05 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['353', '', '63.06', '', 'Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds;\ntents; sails for boats, sailboards or\nlandcraft; camping goods.', 'Change to Heading 63.06 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of anyParty; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['354', '', '63.07', '', 'Other made up articles, including dress\npatterns.', 'Change to Heading 63.07 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['355', '', '63.08', '', 'Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn,\nwhether or not with accessories, for\nmaking up into rugs, tapestries,\nembroidered table-cloths or serviettes, or\nsimilar textile articles, put up in packings\nfor retail sale.', 'Change to Heading 63.08 from\nany other Chapter, provided that\nthe fabrics of 50.07, 51.11 through\n51.13, 52.08 through 52.12, 53.09\nthrough 53.11, 54.07 through\n54.08, 55.12 through 55.16, 58.01\nthrough 58.02, 60.01 through\n60.06 are orignating in the\nterritory of any Party and the good\nis both cut and sewn in the\nterritory of any Party; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['356', '', '63.09', '', 'Worn clothing and other worn articles.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['357', '', '63.10', '', 'Used or new rags, scrap twine, cordage,\nrope and cables and worn out articles of\ntwine, cordage, rope or cables, of textile\nmaterials.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', 'Section XIII - Articles of stone, plaster, cement, asbestos, mica or similar materials; ceramic products; glass and glassware', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n68', '', '', 'Articles of stone, plaster, cement,\nasbestos, mica or similar materials', ''], ['', '', '68.02', '', 'Worked monumental or building stone\n(except slate) and articles thereof, other\nthan goods of heading 68.01; mosaic\ncubes and the like, of natural stone\n(including slate), whether or not on a\nbacking; artificially coloured granules,\nchippings and powder, of natural stone\n(including slate).', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other', ''], ['358', '', '', '6802.91', '- - Marble, travertine and alabaster', 'Change to Subheading 6802.91\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '68.11', '', 'Articles of asbestos-cement, of cellulose\nfibre-cement or the like.', ''], ['359', '', '', '6811.20', '- Other sheets, panels, tiles and similar\narticles', 'Change to Subheading 6811.20\nfrom any other Chapter; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Section XIV - Natural or cultured pearls, precious or semi-precious stones, precious metals, metals clad with precious metal, and articles\nthereof; imitation jewellery; coin', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n71', '', '', 'Natural or cultured pearls, precious or\nsemi-precious stones, precious metals,\nmetals clad with precious metal, and\narticles thereof; imitation jewellery; coin', ''], ['360', '', '71.01', '', 'Pearls, natural or cultured, whether or\nnot worked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; pearls, natural or\ncultured, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', 'Wholly-Obtained or Produced in\nthe territory of the exporting Party'], ['', '', '71.02', '', 'Diamonds, whether or not worked, but\nnot mounted or set.', ''], ['361', '', '', '7102.10', '- Unsorted', 'Change to Subheading 7102.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Industrial', ''], ['362', '', '', '7102.21', '- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or\nbruted', 'Change to Subheading 7102.21\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['363', '', '', '7102.29', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 7102.29\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Non-industrial', ''], ['364', '', '', '7102.31', '- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or\nbruted', 'Change to Subheading 7102.31\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['365', '', '', '7102.39', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 7102.39\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.03', '', 'Precious stones (other than diamonds)\nand semi-precious stones, whether or not\nworked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; ungraded precious\nstones (other than diamonds) and semi-\nprecious stones, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', ''], ['366', '', '', '7103.10', '- Unworked or simply sawn or roughly\nshaped', 'Change to Subheading 7103.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Otherwise worked', ''], ['367', '', '', '7103.91', '- - Rubies, sapphires and emeralds', 'Change to Subheading 7103.91\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['368', '', '', '7103.99', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 7103.99\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.04', '', 'Synthetic or reconstructed precious or\nsemi-precious stones, whether or not\nworked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; ungraded synthetic or\nreconstructed precious or semi-precious\nstones, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', ''], ['369', '', '', '7104.10', '- Piezo-electric quartz', 'Change to Subheading 7104.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['370', '', '', '7104.20', '- Other, unworked or simply sawn or\nroughly shaped', 'Change to Subheading 7104.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['371', '', '', '7104.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 7104.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.05', '', 'Dust and powder of natural or synthetic\nprecious or semi-precious stones.', ''], ['372', '', '', '7105.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 7105.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.13', '', 'Articles of jewellery and parts thereof, of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Of precious metal whether or not plated or\nclad with precious metal', ''], ['373', '', '', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad\nwith other precious metal', 'Change to Subheading 7113.11\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'of the good'], ['374', '', '', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal', 'Change to Subheading 7113.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.14', '', "Articles of goldsmiths' or silversmiths'\nwares and parts thereof, of precious\nmetal or of metal clad with precious\nmetal.", ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Of precious metal whether or not plated or\nclad with precious metal', ''], ['375', '', '', '7114.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad\nwith other precious metal', 'Change to Subheading 7114.11\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['376', '', '', '7114.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal', 'Change to Subheading 7114.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.15', '', 'Other articles of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal.', ''], ['377', '', '', '7115.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 7115.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.16', '', 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls,\nprecious or semi-precious stones\n(natural, synthetic or reconstructed).', ''], ['378', '', '', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls', 'Change to Subheading 7116.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['379', '', '', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious stones\n(natural, synthetic, or reconstructed)', 'Change to Subheading 7116.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '71.17', '', 'Imitation jewellery.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Of base metal, whether or not plated with\nprecious metal', ''], ['380', '', '', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs', 'Change to Subheading 7117.11\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['381', '', '', '7117.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 7117.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Section XV - Base metals and articles of base metal', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n72', '', '', 'Iron and steel', ''], ['382', '', '72.09', '', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy\nsteel, of a width of 600 mm or more,\ncold-rolled (cold-reduced), not clad,\nplated or coated.', 'Change to Heading 72.09 from\nany other Heading'], ['', '', '72.20', '', 'Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'a width of less than 600 mm.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Not further worked than hot-rolled', ''], ['383', '', '', '7220.11', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', 'Change to Subheading 7220.11\nfrom any other Heading, except\nfrom Heading 72.19'], ['384', '', '', '7220.12', '- - Of a thickness of less than 4.75 mm', 'Change to Subheading 7220.12\nfrom any other Heading, except\nfrom Heading 72.19'], ['', 'Chapter\n74', '', '', 'Copper and articles thereof', ''], ['385', '', '74.08', '', 'Copper wire.', 'Change to Heading 74.08 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 74.07; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['386', '', '74.13', '', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and\nthe like, of copper, not electrically\ninsulated', 'Change to Heading 74.13 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 74.07; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n76', '', '', 'Aluminium and articles thereof', ''], ['387', '', '76.05', '', 'Aluminium wire.', 'Change to Heading 76.05 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 76.04; or A regional\nvalue content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['388', '', '76.14', '', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and\nthe like, of aluminium, not electrically\ninsulated.', 'Change to Heading 76.14 from\nany other Heading, except from\nHeading 76.05; or A regional'], ['', '', '', '', '', 'value content of not less than 40\npercent of the FOB value of the\ngood'], ['', 'Chapter\n81', '', '', 'Other base metals; cermets; articles\nthereof', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'Magnesium and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Unwrought magnesium', ''], ['389', '', '', '8104.30', '- Raspings, turnings and granules, graded\naccording to size; powders', 'Change to Subheading 8104.30\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n83', '', '', 'Miscellaneous articles of base metal', ''], ['', '', '83.05', '', 'Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files,\nletter clips, letter corners, paper clips,\nindexing tags and similar office articles,\nof base metal; staples in strips (for\nexample, for offices, upholstery,\npackaging), of base metal.', ''], ['390', '', '', '8305.10', '- Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files', 'Change to Subheading 8305.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['391', '', '', '8305.20', '- Staples in strips', 'Change to Subheading 8305.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['392', '', '', '8305.90', '- Other, including parts', 'Change to Subheading 8305.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Section XVI - Machinery and Mechanical Appliances; Electrical Equipment; Parts thereof; Sound Recorders and Reproducers, Television\nImage and Sound Recorders and Reproducers, and Parts and Accessories of Such Articles', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n84', '', '', 'Nuclear reactors, boilers, machinery and\nmechanical appliances; parts thereof', ''], ['', '', '84.15', '', 'Air conditioning machines, comprising a\nmotor-driven fan and elements for\nchanging the temperature and humidity,\nincluding those machines in which the\nhumidity cannot be separately regulated.', ''], ['393', '', '', '8415.10', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or\n"split-system"', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '84.79', '', 'Machines and mechanical appliances,\nhaving individual functions, not specified\nor included elsewhere in this Chapter.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other machines and mechanical', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'appliances', ''], ['394', '', '', '8479.81', '- - For treating metal, including electric\nwire coil-winders', 'Change to Subheading 8479.81\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['395', '', '', '8479.89', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 8479.89\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', 'Ball or roller bearings.', ''], ['396', '', '', '8482.10', '- Ball bearings', 'Change to Subheading 8482.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n85', '', '', 'Electrical machinery and equipment;\nand parts thereof; sound recorders and\nreproducers, television image and sound\nrecorders and reproducers, and parts\nand accessories of such articles', None], ['', '', '85.04', '', 'Electrical transformers, static converters\n(for example, rectifiers) and inductors.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other transformers', ''], ['397', '', '', '8504.50', '- Other inductors', 'Change to Subheading 8504.50\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.18', '', 'Microphones and stands therefor;\nloudspeakers, whether or not mounted in\ntheir enclosures; headphones and\nearphones, whether or not combined\nwith a microphone, and sets consisting of\na microphone and one or more\nloudspeakers; audio-frequency electric\namplifiers; electric sound amplifier sets.', ''], ['398', '', '', '8518.30', '- Headphones and earphones, whether or\nnot combined with a microphone, and sets\nconsisting of a microphone and one or more\nloudspeakers', 'Change to Subheading 8518.30\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['399', '', '', '8518.50', '- Electric sound amplifier sets', 'Change to Subheading 8518.50\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.19', '', 'Turntables (record-decks), record-\nplayers, cassette-players and other sound\nreproduction apparatus, not\nincorporating a sound recording device.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Turntable (record-decks)', ''], ['400', '', '', '8519.31', '- - With automatic record changing\nmechanism', 'Change to Subheading 8519.31\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.22', '', 'Parts and accessories suitable for use\nsolely or principally with the apparatus\nof headings 85.19 to 85.21.', ''], ['401', '', '', '8522.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 8522.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.25', '', 'Transmission apparatus for radio-\ntelephony, radio-telegraphy, radio-\nbroadcasting or television, whether or\nnot incorporating reception apparatus or\nsound recording or reproducing\napparatus; television cameras; still image\nvideo cameras and other video camera\nrecorders; digital cameras', ''], ['402', '', '', '8525.20', '- Transmission apparatus incorporating\nreception apparatus', 'Change to Subheading 8525.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.28', '', 'Reception apparatus for television,\nwhether or not incorporating radio-\nbroadcast receivers or sound or video\nrecording or reproducing apparatus;\nvideo monitors and video projectors.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Reception apparatus for television,\nwhether or not incorporating radio-\nbroadcast receivers or sound or video\nrecording or reproducing apparatus', ''], ['403', '', '', '8528.12', '- - Colour', 'Change to Subheading 8528.12\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.29', '', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the apparatus of\nheadings 85.25 to 85.28.', ''], ['404', '', '', '8529.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 8529.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.32', '', 'Electrical capacitors, fixed, variable or\nadjustable (pre-set).', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other fixed capacitors', ''], ['405', '', '', '8532.22', '- - Aluminium electrolytic', 'Change to Subheading 8532.22\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.36', '', 'Electrical apparatus for switching or\nprotecting electrical circuits, or for\nmaking connections to or in electrical\ncircuits (for example, switches, relays,\nfuses, surge suppressors, plugs, sockets,\nlamp-holders, junction boxes), for a\nvoltage not exceeding 1,000 volts.', ''], ['406', '', '', '8536.10', '- Fuses', 'Change to Subheading 8536.10\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.39', '', 'Electric filament or discharge lamps,\nincluding sealed beam lamp units and\nultra-violet or infra-red lamps; arc-\nlamps.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other filament lamps, excluding ultra-\nviolet or infra-red lamps', ''], ['407', '', '', '8539.21', '- - Tungsten halogen', 'Change to Subheading 8539.21\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Discharge lamps, other than ultra-violet\nlamps', ''], ['408', '', '', '8539.31', '- - Fluorescent, hot cathode', 'Change to Subheading 8539.31\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['409', '', '', '8539.90', '- Parts', 'Change to Subheading 8539.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.40', '', 'Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-\ncathode valves and tubes (for example,\nvacuum or vapour or gas filled valves\nand tubes, mercury arc rectifying valves\nand tubes, cathode-ray tubes, television\ncamera tubes).', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Cathode-ray television picture\ntubes,including video monitor cathode-ray\ntubes', ''], ['410', '', '', '8540.20', '- Television camera tubes; image\nconverters and intensifiers; other photo-\ncathode tubes', 'Change to Subheading 8540.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['411', '', '', '8540.40', '- Data/graphic display tubes, colour, with a\nphosphor dot screen pitch smaller than\n0.4mm', 'Change to Subheading 8540.40\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['412', '', '', '8540.60', '- Other cathode-ray tubes', 'Change to Subheading 8540.60\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Microwave tubes (for example,\nmagnetrons, klystrons, travelling wave\ntubes, carcinotrons), excluding grid-\ncontrolled tubes', ''], ['413', '', '', '8540.71', '- - Magnetrons', 'Change to Subheading 8540.71\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 45 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['414', '', '', '8540.72', '- - Klystrons', 'Change to Subheading 8540.72\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other valves and tubes', ''], ['415', '', '', '8540.89', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 8540.89\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Parts', ''], ['416', '', '', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes', 'Change to Subheading 8540.91\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.41', '', 'Diodes, transistors and similar semi-\nconductor devices; photosensitive semi-\nconductor devices, including\nphotovoltaic cells whether or not\nassembled in modules or made up into\npanels; light emitting diodes; mounted\npiezo-electric crystals.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Transistors, other than photosensitive\ntransistors', ''], ['417', '', '', '8541.90', '- Parts', 'Change to Subheading 8541.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', '', '85.43', '', 'Electrical machines and apparatus,\nhaving individual functions, not specified\nor included in this Chapter.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other machines and apparatus', ''], ['418', '', '', '8543.89', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 8543.89\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n87', '', '', 'Vehicles, other than railway or tramway\nrolling-stock, and parts thereof and\naccessories thereof', ''], ['', '', '87.02', '', 'Motor vehicles for the transport of ten or\nmore persons, including the driver.', ''], ['419', '', '', '8702.10', '- With compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel)', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['420', '', '', '8702.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '87.03', '', 'Motor cars and other motor vehicles\nprincipally designed for the transport of\npersons (other than those of heading\n87.02), including station wagons and\nracing cars', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other vehicles, with spark-ignition\ninternal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine', ''], ['421', '', '', '8703.21', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n1,000 cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['422', '', '', '8703.22', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000\ncc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['423', '', '', '8703.23', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500\ncc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['424', '', '', '8703.24', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000\ncc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other vehicles, with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or\nsemi-diesel)', ''], ['425', '', '', '8703.31', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n1,500 cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['426', '', '', '8703.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500\ncc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['427', '', '', '8703.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500cc', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['428', '', '', '8703.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '87.04', '', 'Motor vehicles for the transport of\ngoods.', ''], ['429', '', '', '8704.10', '- Dumpers designed for off-highway use', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other, with compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel)', ''], ['430', '', '', '8704.21', '- - Gross vehicle weight not exceeding 5t', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['431', '', '', '8704.22', '- - g.v.w exceeding 5t but not exceeding 20t', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['432', '', '', '8704.23', '- - g.v.w exceeding 20t', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '', '', '- Other, with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine', ''], ['433', '', '', '8704.31', '- - g.w.w not exceeding 5t', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['434', '', '', '8704.32', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 5t', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['435', '', '', '8704.90', '- Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', '', '87.08', '', 'Parts and accessories of the motor\nvehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Other parts and accessories', ''], ['436', '', '', '8708.94', '- - Steering wheels, steering columns and\nsteering boxes', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['437', '', '', '8708.99', '- - Other', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['438', '', '87.11', '', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and\ncycles fitted with an auxiliary motor,\nwith or without side-cars; side-cars.', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 45 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['', 'Chapter\n89', '', '', 'Ships, boats and floating structures', ''], ['', '', '89.07', '', 'Other floating structures (for example,\nrafts, tanks, coffer-dams, landing-stages,\nbuoys and beacons).', ''], ['439', '', '', '8907.10', '- Inflatable rafts', 'Change to Subheading 8907.10\nfrom any other Heading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 50 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Section XVIII - Optical, Photographic, Cinematographic, Measuring, Checking, Precision, Medical or Surgical\nInstruments and Apparatus; Clocks and Watches; Musical Instruments; Parts and Accessories Thereof', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n90', '', '', 'Optical, photographic, cinematographic,\nmeasuring, checking, precision, medical', ''], ['', '', '', '', 'or surgical instruments and apparatus;\nparts and accessories thereof', ''], ['', '', '90.02', '', 'Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical\nelements, of any material, mounted,\nbeing parts of or fittings for instruments\nor apparatus, other than such elements\nof glass not optically worked.', ''], ['', '', '', '', '- Objective lenses', ''], ['440', '', '', '9002.11', '- - For cameras, projectors or photographic\nenlargers or reducers', 'Change to Subheading 9002.11\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['441', '', '', '9002.19', '- - Other', 'Change to Subheading 9002.19\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['442', '', '', '9002.20', '- Filters', 'Change to Subheading 9002.20\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['443', '', '', '9002.90', '- Other', 'Change to Subheading 9002.90\nfrom any other Subheading; or A\nregional value content of not less\nthan 40 percent of the FOB value\nof the good'], ['', 'Section XX - Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles', None, None, None, None], ['', 'Chapter\n94', '', '', 'Furniture; bedding, mattresses, mattress\nsupports, cushions and similar stuffed\nfurnishings; lamps and lighting fittings,\nnot elsewhere specified or included;\nilluminated signs, illuminated name-\nplates and the like; prefabricated\nbuildings', ''], ['', '', '94.03', '', 'Other furniture and parts thereof.', ''], ['444', '', '', '9403.30', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in offices', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 60 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['445', '', '', '9403.40', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the\nkitchen', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 60 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['446', '', '', '9403.50', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the\nbedroom', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 60 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good'], ['447', '', '', '9403.60', '- Other wooden furniture', 'A regional value content of not\nless than 60 percent of the FOB\nvalue of the good']]
   APPENDIX3 EXPLANATORYNOTESTOANNEX3    1. RVC Calculation Formula  For the purposes of Rule 5 of Annex 3, RVC of a good specified in Appendix 2 shall be calculated in accordance with the formula provided for in paragraph 2 of Rule 4 of Annex 3.  2. Non-Qualifying Operations for Textile and Garment   Notwithstanding any provisions in Annex 3, a good  from Chapters 50 through 63 shall not be considered to be originating in the territory of a Party if the following operations are undertaken exclusively by itself or in combination within each paragraph in the territory of that Party, whether or not both RVC and CTC criteria, are satisfied:  (a) simple combining operations, labeling, ironing or pressing, cleaning or dry cleaning, packaging operations, or any combination thereof;  (b) cutting to length or width and hemming, stitching or overlocking of fabrics which are readily identifiable as being intended for a particular commercial use;  (c) trimming and/or joining together of accessory articles, such as straps, bands, beads, cords,  rings or eyelets, by sewing, looping, linking or attaching;   (d) bleaching, waterproofing, decating, shrinking, mercerizing, or similar operations for the purposes of having merely undergone the finishing operations; or  (e) embroidery which represents less than five (5) percent of the total area of the embroidered goods or embroidery which contributes less than five (5) percent of the total weight of the embroidered goods.  3. Agricultural and Horticultural goods   Agricultural and horticultural goods grown in the territory of an exporting Party shall be treated as originating in the territory of that Party even if they are grown from seed, bulbs, rootstock, cuttings, slips or other live parts of plants imported from a territory of a third country.   
4. Aquacultural goods  Aquacultural goods raised in the territory of an exporting Party shall be treated as originating in the territory of that Party if they are raised from seedstocks such as eggs, frys, fingerlings, glass eels or oyster spats to be normally fed on initial feed such as rotifer or artemia. 
 27 February 2009   To: ASEAN Economic Ministers   Dear Excellencies:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of August 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of the Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, as follows:  1. List of Goods   (a) Each Party shall apply Rule 6 to goods listed in its individual list attached hereto. The total number of goods in the individual list of each country shall be one hundred at HS six digits.  (b) Korea may request amendment of the lists referred to in sub-paragraph (a), which ASEAN Member Countries shall consider in good faith. Such amendment shall be adopted when mutually agreed by Korea and the Party concerned for the list.   2. Origin Conferring   (a) “Certain goods” in Rule 6 as reflected in the lists referred to in paragraph 1(a) and any subsequent amendments, which are re-imported as the goods that do not undergo any process beyond operations within the territory of the re-importing Party for export as set out in Rule 8 of Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be deemed to be originating in the territory of the Party, provided that:    (i)  the total value of non-originating input does not exceed 40 per cent of the FOB price of the final good for which originating status is claimed; and  (ii)  the value of originating materials exported from a Party is not less than 60 per cent of the total value of materials used in manufacturing the final good.                                                  
 (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Note, relevant rules in Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the origin conferring of the goods to which Rule 6 applies.  3. Specific Procedures for the Implementation of Rule 6  (a) Certificate of origin for goods covered by Rule 6 shall be issued by the issuing authority of the exporting Party in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods (hereinafter referred to as “Appendix 1”).  (b) The issuing authority of the exporting Party shall indicate in the certificate of origin that the good is covered by Rule 6.  (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Note, the relevant rules in Appendix 1 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the goods to which Rule 6 applies.  (d)  Korea shall assist the customs authority of importing Party to conduct verification on goods covered by Rule 6 in accordance with Rules 14, 15 and 16 of Appendix 1.   4. Special Safeguard  (a) When a Party determines that there is an increase of importation of a good covered by Rule 6 into the territory of that Party in such quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to its domestic industry, that Party shall be free to suspend the application of Rule 6 to such a good for such a period of time as it may consider necessary to prevent or remedy such injury or threat to cause injury to the domestic industry of the Party.   (b) A Party that intends to suspend the application of Rule 6 pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) shall notify to Korea two months in advance of the start of the suspension period and afford Korea an opportunity to exchange views with it in respect of the proposed suspension.    (c)  The period mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph may be extended provided that the Party has taken the action of suspension (hereinafter referred to as “Suspending Party”) has determined that the suspension continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy injury.  (d)  In critical circumstances, where delay would cause damage which would be difficult to repair, the suspension of the application of Rule 6 under sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph may be taken provisionally without                                                  
two months advance notification to Korea, on the condition that notification shall be made before such suspension takes effect.   (e) When a Party has made a determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) and the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (b) are fulfilled, the Party concerned may suspend the application of Rule 6 unilaterally and unconditionally, including as follows:  (i) there shall be no obligation to prove that there is serious injury;  (ii) there shall be no obligation for advance consultation;  (iii) there shall be no limit to the duration or frequency of suspension; and  (iv) there shall be no obligation for compensation.  5. Annual Review  (a) Parties shall review the implementation and operation of Rule 6 at the Implementing Committee which shall convene in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations. For this purpose:  (i) the exporting Party shall provide to the Implementing Committee a brief factual report on the operation of Rule 6, including export statistics of each good listed in the attached lists referred to in paragraph 1(a) to the importing Parties during the previous one-year period; and  (ii) the importing Party shall provide upon the request of the Implementing Committee information pertaining to denial of claims for preferential tariff treatment, if any, including the number of Certificates of Origin not accepted, and reasons for denial.  (b) The Implementing Committee may request such additional information as it may consider necessary for its review of the implementation and operation of Rule 6 from the exporting Party.  (c) Taking into account the result of the review provided for in sub-paragraph (a), the Implementing Committee may make recommendations as they may consider necessary.    
6. Option of Rescinding  Anytime five years after the entry into force of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, an ASEAN Member Country will have an option of rescinding the application of this Note when it determines, on the basis of a review and on its own discretion, that its interests have been seriously damaged as a consequence of the application of Rule 6.  7. Any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Note shall not be subject to the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations.    8. Nothing in this Note shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties under the Agreement on Trade in Goods, including Article 9 (Safeguard Measures) thereof.    I have further the honour of proposing that the Exchange of Notes between the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries regarding the Implementation and Monitoring of Rule 6, dated 24 August 2006, shall be replaced and superceded by this Exchange of Note.    I would be grateful if you would confirm that the understanding of my Government as stated above is shared by your Government and that this understanding, during its period of validity, shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods.    Sincerely,         KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea   cc.:  Surin Pitsuwan  Secretary General of ASEAN   ASEAN Economic Ministers  Lim Jock Seng Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Brunei Darussalam  
Cham Prasidh Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce Kingdom of Cambodia  Mari Elka Pangestu Minister of Trade The Republic of Indonesia  Nam Viyaketh Minister of Industry and Commerce The Lao People’s Democratic Republic  Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin Minister of International Trade and Industry Malaysia  U Soe Tha Minister for National Planning and Economic Development The Union of Myanmar  Peter B. Favila Secretary of Trade and Industry The Republic of the Philippines  Lim Hng Kiang Minister for Trade and Industry The Republic of Singapore  Porntiva Nakasai Minister of Commerce The Kingdom of Thailand  Vu Huy Hoang Minister of Industry and Trade The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam   
27 February 2009   H.E. Mr. Kim Jong-Hoon Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea  Your Excellency,    I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated 27 February 2009, which reads as follows:   “I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of August 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of the Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, as follows:  1. List of Goods   (c) Each Party shall apply Rule 6 to goods listed in its individual list attached hereto. The total number of goods in the individual list of each country shall be one hundred at HS six digits.  (b) Korea may request amendment of the lists referred to in sub-paragraph (a), which ASEAN Member Countries shall consider in good faith. Such amendment shall be adopted when mutually agreed by Korea and the Party concerned for the list.   2. Origin Conferring   (a) “Certain goods” in Rule 6 as reflected in the lists referred to in paragraph 1(a) and any subsequent amendments, which are re-imported as the goods that do not undergo any process beyond operations within the territory of the re-importing Party for export as set out in Rule 8 of Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be deemed to be originating in the territory of the Party, provided that:  (i)  the total value of non-originating input does not exceed 40 per cent of the FOB price of the final good for which originating                                                  
status is claimed; and  (ii)  the value of originating materials exported from a Party is not less than 60 per cent of the total value of materials used in manufacturing the final good.  (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Note, relevant rules in Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the origin conferring of the goods to which Rule 6 applies.  3. Specific Procedures for the Implementation of Rule 6  (a) Certificate of origin for goods covered by Rule 6 shall be issued by the issuing authority of the exporting Party in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Annex 3 of the Agreement on Trade in Goods (hereinafter referred to as “Appendix 1”).  (d) The issuing authority of the exporting Party shall indicate in the certificate of origin that the good is covered by Rule 6. (c) Except as otherwise provided in this Note, the relevant rules in Appendix 1 shall be applied mutatis mutandis to the goods to which Rule 6 applies.  (d) Korea shall assist the customs authority of importing Party to conduct verification on goods covered by Rule 6 in accordance with Rules 14, 15 and 16 of Appendix 1.  4. Special Safeguard  (a) When a Party determines that there is an increase of importation of a good covered by Rule 6 into the territory of that Party in such quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to its domestic industry, that Party shall be free to suspend the application of Rule 6 to such a good for such a period of time as it may consider necessary to prevent or remedy such injury or threat to cause injury to the domestic industry of the Party.   (b) A Party that intends to suspend the application of Rule 6 pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) shall notify to Korea two months in advance of the start of the suspension period and afford Korea an opportunity to exchange views with it in respect of the proposed suspension.     (c) The period mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph may be extended provided that the Party has taken the action of suspension (hereinafter referred to as “Suspending Party”) has determined that the suspension continues to be necessary to prevent or remedy injury.                                                  
 (d) In critical circumstances, where delay would cause damage which would be difficult to repair, the suspension of the application of Rule 6 under sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph may be taken provisionally without two months advance notification to Korea, on the condition that notification shall be made before such suspension takes effect.   (e) When a Party has made a determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) and the requirements set out in sub-paragraph (b) are fulfilled, the Party concerned may suspend the application of Rule 6 unilaterally and unconditionally, including as follows:  (i) there shall be no obligation to prove that there is serious injury;  (ii) there shall be no obligation for advance consultation;  (iii) there shall be no limit to the duration or frequency of suspension; and  (iv) there shall be no obligation for compensation.  5. Annual Review  (a) Parties shall review the implementation and operation of Rule 6 at the Implementing Committee which shall convene in accordance with paragraph 6 of Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations. For this purpose:  (i) the exporting Party shall provide to the Implementing Committee a brief factual report on the operation of Rule 6, including export statistics of each good listed in the attached lists referred to in paragraph 1(a) to the importing Parties during the previous one-year period; and  (ii) the importing Party shall provide upon the request of the Implementing Committee information pertaining to denial of claims for preferential tariff treatment, if any, including the number of Certificates of Origin not accepted, and reasons for denial.  (b) The Implementing Committee may request such additional information as it may consider necessary for its review of the implementation and operation of Rule 6 from the exporting Party.  (c) Taking into account the result of the review provided for in sub-paragraph (a), the Implementing Committee may make recommendations 
as they may consider necessary.  6. Option of Rescinding  Anytime five years after the entry into force of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, an ASEAN Member Country will have an option of rescinding the application of this Note when it determines, on the basis of a review and on its own discretion, that its interests have been seriously damaged as a consequence of the application of Rule 6.  7. Any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Note shall not be subject to the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations.    8. Nothing in this Note shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties under the Agreement on Trade in Goods, including Article 9 (Safeguard Measures) thereof.    I have further the honour of proposing that the Exchange of Notes between the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries regarding the Implementation and Monitoring of Rule 6, dated 24 August 2006, shall be replaced and superceded by this Exchange of Note.    I would be grateful if you would confirm that the understanding of my Government as stated above is shared by your Government and that this understanding, during its period of validity, shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods."    I have the honour of confirming that this understanding is shared by my Government and that this understanding shall constitute an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods.  Sincerely,      _________________________ LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade Brunei Darussalam       
___________________________ CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce Kingdom of Cambodia      ____________________________ MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade The Republic of Indonesia      ____________________________ NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce The Lao People’s Democratic Republic      _____________________________ TAN SRI MUHYIDDIN YASSIN  Minister of International Trade and Industry Malaysia      ______________________________ U SOE THA Minister of National Planning and Economic Development The Union of Myanmar          
___________________ PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry The Republic of the Philippines      ____________________ LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry The Republic of Singapore      _______________________ PORNTIVA NAKASAI Minister of Commerce The Kingdom of Thailand      ____________________ VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam   cc.:  Surin Pitsuwan Secretary General of ASEAN     
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM
[['No.', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '4016.99', '- - Other', '4016.99', '- - Other'], ['2', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['3', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics\nor of textile materials'], ['4', '4202.19', '- - Other', '4202.19', '- - Other'], ['5', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['6', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['7', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['8', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['9', '4202.99', '- - Other', '4202.99', '- - Other'], ['10', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile materials\nassembled with padding by\nstitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile materials\nassembled with padding by\nstitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10.'], ['11', '6107.11', '- - Of cotton', '6107.11', '- - Of cotton'], ['12', '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['13', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['14', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['15', '6107.92', '- - Of man-made fibres', 'ex6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['16', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['17', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['18', '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['19', '6108.29', '- - Of other textile materials', '6108.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['20', '6108.91', '- - Of cotton', '6108.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['21', '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['22', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['23', '6109.10', '- Of cotton', '6109.10', '- Of cotton'], ['24', '6111.20', '- Of cotton', '6111.20', '- Of cotton'], ['25', '6115.19', '- - Of other textile materials', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['26', '6115.20', '- Women’s full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.30', "- Other women's full-length or\nknee-length hosiery, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex"]]
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM
[['No.', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['27', '6115.92', '- - Of cotton', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.95', '- - Of cotton'], ['28', '6115.93', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.96', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['29', '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['30', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like'], ['31', '6117.20', '- Ties, bow ties and cravats', '6117.80', '- Other accessories'], ['32', '6117.90', '- Parts', '6117.90', '- Parts'], ['33', '6201.11', '- - Of wool of fine animal hair', '6201.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['34', '6201.12', '- - Of cotton', '6201.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['35', '6201.13', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6201.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['36', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['37', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['38', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['39', '6202.13', '- - Of man made fibres', '6202.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['40', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['41', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['42', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['43', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['44', '6203.21', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['45', '6203.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6203.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['46', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['47', '6203.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['48', '6203.42', '- - Of cotton:', '6203.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['49', '6203.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['50', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['51', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['52', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['53', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['54', '6204.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['55', '6204.32', '- - Of cotton', '6204.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['56', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['57', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['58', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['59', '6204.42', '- - Of cotton', '6204.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['60', '6204.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['61', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres'], ['62', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['63', '6204.51', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.51', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['64', '6204.52', '- - Of cotton', '6204.52', '- - Of cotton'], ['65', '6204.53', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.53', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['66', '6204.59', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.59', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['67', '6204.61', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.61', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair']]
BRUNEI DARUSSALAM
[['No.', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['68', '6204.62', '- - Of cotton', '6204.62', '- - Of cotton'], ['69', '6204.63', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.63', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['70', '6204.69', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.69', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['71', '6205.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['72', '6205.20', '- Of cotton', '6205.20', '- Of cotton'], ['73', '6205.30', '- Of man-made fibres', '6205.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['74', '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials', 'ex6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['75', '6206.10', 'Of silk or silk waste', '6206.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['76', '6206.30', '- Of cotton', '6206.30', '- Of cotton'], ['77', '6206.40', '- Of man-made fibres', '6206.40', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['78', '6206.90', '- Of other textile materials', 'ex6206.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['79', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['80', '6211.20', '- Ski suits', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['81', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['82', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['83', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['84', '6212.10', '- Brassières', '6212.10', '- Brassières'], ['85', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty girdles', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles'], ['86', '6212.90', '- Other', '6212.90', '- Other'], ['87', '6213.10', '- Of silk or silk waste', 'ex6213.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['88', '6213.20', '- Of cotton', '6213.20', '- Of cotton'], ['89', '6213.90', '- Of other textile materials', 'ex6213.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['90', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['91', '6214.20', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '6214.20', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['92', '6214.30', '- Of synthetic fibres', '6214.30', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['93', '6214.90', '- Of other textile materials', '6214.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['94', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.'], ['95', '8424.90', '- Parts', '8424.90', '- Parts'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.90', '- Parts and accessories'], ['96', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold or silver plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['97', '9113.90', '- Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['98', '9502.10', '- Dolls, whether or not dressed', '9503.00.21', '- - Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['99', '9503.41', '- - Stuffed', '9503.00.60', '- Stuffed toys representing animals\nor non-human creatures'], ['100', '9503.49', '- - Other', '9503.00.99', '- - Other'], ['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '2923.90', '- Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals'], ['3', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers'], ['4', '3908.10', '- Polyamide -6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12:'], ['5', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms.'], ['6', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar\narticles', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar\narticles'], ['7', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles:'], ['8', '3923.50', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other\nclosures', '3923.50', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other\nclosures'], ['9', '3923.90', '- Other', '3923.90', '- Other'], ['10', '3926.90', '- Other', '3006.91', '- - Appliances identifiable for\nostomy use'], [None, None, None, 'ex3926.90', '- Other:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8536.70', '- Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibres bundles or cables'], ['11', '6107.11', '- - Of cotton', '6107.11', '- - Of cotton'], ['12', '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['13', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['14', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['15', '6107.92', '- - Of man-made fibres', 'ex6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['16', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['17', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['18', '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['19', '6108.29', '- - Of other textile materials', '6108.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['20', '6108.91', '- - Of cotton', '6108.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['21', '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['22', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['23', '6111.20', '- Of cotton', '6111.20', '- Of cotton'], ['24', '6114.20', '- Of cotton', '6114.20', '- Of cotton'], ['25', '6115.19', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.29', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['26', '6115.20', '- Women’s full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per single\nyarn less than 67 decitex', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.30', "- Other women's full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per single\nyarn less than 67 decitex:"], ['27', '6115.92', '- - Of cotton', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.95', '- - Of cotton'], ['28', '6115.93', '- - Of synthetic fibres', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.96', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['29', '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['30', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like:'], ['31', '6117.20', '- Ties, bow ties and cravats', 'ex6117.80', '- Other accessories:'], ['32', '6117.90', '- Parts', '6117.90', '- Parts'], ['33', '6201.11', '- - Of wool of fine animal hair', '6201.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['34', '6201.12', '- - Of cotton', '6201.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['35', '6201.13', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6201.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['36', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['37', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['38', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['39', '6202.13', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6202.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['40', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['41', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['42', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['43', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['44', '6203.21', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['45', '6203.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6203.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['46', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['47', '6203.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['48', '6203.42', '- - Of cotton', '6203.42', '- - Of cotton:'], ['49', '6203.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['50', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['51', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['52', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['53', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['54', '6204.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['55', '6204.32', '- - Of cotton', '6204.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['56', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['57', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['58', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['59', '6204.42', '- - Of cotton', '6204.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['60', '6204.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['61', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres'], ['62', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['63', '6204.51', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.51', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['64', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['65', '6212.10', '- Brassières', '6212.10', '- Brassières:'], ['66', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles:'], ['67', '6212.90', '- Other', '6212.90', '- Other:'], ['68', '6213.10', '- Of silk or silk waste', 'ex6213.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['69', '6213.20', '- Of cotton', '6213.20', '- Of cotton'], ['70', '6401.10', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6401.10', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['71', '6401.91', '- - Covering the knee', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['72', '6401.92', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee', '6401.92', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee'], ['73', '6401.99', '- - Other', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['74', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['75', '6402.19', '- - Other', '6402.19', '- - Other'], ['76', '6402.20', '- Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled to the sole by\nmeans of plugs', '6402.20', '- Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled to the sole by\nmeans of plugs'], ['77', '6402.30', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], [None, None, None, 'ex6402.99', '- - Other'], ['78', '6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], ['79', '6402.99', '- - Other', 'ex6402.99', '- - Other'], ['80', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['81', '6403.19', '- - Other', '6403.19', '- - Other:'], ['82', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist of\nleather straps across the instep and\naround the big toe', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist of\nleather straps across the instep and\naround the big toe'], ['83', '6403.30', '- Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not having an\ninner sole or a protective metal toe-\ncap', 'ex6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], [None, None, None, 'ex6403.99', '- - Other'], ['84', '6403.40', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6403.40', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['85', '6403.51', '- - Covering the ankle', '6403.51', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['86', '6403.59', '- - Other', '6403.59', '- - Other'], ['87', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['88', '6403.99', '- - Other', '6403.99', '- - Other'], ['89', '6404.11', '- - Sports footwear; tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes,\ntraining shoes and the like', '6404.11', '- - Sports footwear; tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes,\ntraining shoes and the like:'], ['90', '6404.19', '- - Other', '6404.19', '- - Other'], ['91', '6404.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or composition leather', '6404.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or composition leather'], ['92', '6405.10', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather', '6405.10', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather'], ['93', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials'], ['94', '6405.90', '- Other', '6405.90', '- Other'], ['95', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners:'], ['96', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber or\nplastics', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber or\nplastics'], ['97', '6406.91', '- - Of wood', '6406.91', '- - Of wood'], ['98', '6406.99', '- - Of other materials', '6406.99', '- - Of other materials:'], ['99', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['100', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines:']]
INDONESIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '2923.90', 'Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '3907.10', 'Polyacetals', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals :'], ['3', '3907.20', 'Other polyethers', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers :'], ['4', '3908.10', 'Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6.12'], ['5', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms', '3910.00', '- In dispersions or in the form of\nsolutions'], ['6', '4016.99', 'Other', '4016.99', '- - Other :'], ['7', '4202.11', 'With outer surface of leather of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition leather or\nof patent leather:'], ['8', '4202.12', '-- With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials :'], ['9', '4202.19', 'Other', '4202.19', '- - Other :'], ['10', '4202.21', 'With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition leather or\nof patent leather'], ['11', '4202.22', 'With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['12', '4202.29', 'Other', '4202.29', '- - Other'], ['13', '4202.91', 'With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition leather or\nof patent leather:'], ['14', '4202.92', 'With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials :'], ['15', '4202.99', 'Other', '4202.99', '- - Other :'], ['16', '4203.10', 'Articles of apparel', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel'], ['17', '4203.21', 'Specially designed for use in sports', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports'], ['18', '5810.91', 'Of cotton', '5810.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['19', '5810.92', 'Of man-made fibres', '5810.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['20', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile assembled with\npadding by stitching or otherwise,\nother than embroidery of heading\n58.10', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile materials\nassembled with padding by\nstitching or otherwise,other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10.'], ['21', '6302.31', 'Of cotton', '6302.31', '- - Of cotton'], ['22', '6302.32', 'Of man-made fibres', '6302.32', '- - Of man-made fibres :'], ['23', '6302.51', 'Of cotton', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton :'], ['24', '6302.53', 'Of man-made fibres', '6302.53', '- - Of man-made fibres :'], ['25', '6302.60', 'Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of\nterry toweling or similar terry\nfabrics, of cotton', '6302.60', '- Toilet linen and kitchen linen,\nof terry towelling or similar terry\nfabrics, of cotton :'], ['26', '6302.91', 'Of cotton', '6302.91', '- - Of cotton :'], ['27', '6302.93', 'Of man-made fibres', '6302.93', '- - Of man-made fibres :'], ['28', '6303.91', 'Of cotton', '6303.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['29', '6303.92', 'Of synthetic fibres', '6303.92', '- - Of synthetic fibres']]
INDONESIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['30', '6304.19', 'Other', '6304.19', '- - Other :'], ['31', '6304.92', 'Not knitted or crocheted, of cotton', '6304.92', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton'], ['32', '7015.10', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['33', '7116.20', 'Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic, or\nreconstructed)', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic, or\nreconstructed)'], ['34', '7117.11', 'Cuff-links and studs', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs :'], ['35', '7419.99', 'Other', 'ex 7419.99', '- - Other :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8536.70', '- Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibres bundles or cables'], ['36', '8207.30', 'Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching'], ['37', '8215.91', 'Plated with precious metal', '8215.91', '- - Plated with precious metal'], ['38', '8215.99', 'Other', '8215.99', '- - Other'], ['39', '8413.30', 'Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium\npumps for internal combustion\npiston engines', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines :'], ['40', '8421.21', '-- For filtering or purifying water', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water :'], ['41', '8421.22', 'For filtering or purifying beverages\nother than water', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water :'], ['42', '8421.23', 'Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines :'], ['43', '8421.29', 'Other', '8421.29', '- - Other :'], ['44', '8421.31', 'Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines :'], ['45', '8424.90', 'Parts', '8424.90', '- Parts :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8486.90', '- Parts and accessories :'], ['46', '8473.10', 'Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69 :'], ['47', '8480.71', 'Injection or compression types', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9(C) to this Chapter :'], ['48', '8504.31', 'Having a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 1 kVA', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling\ncapacity not exceeding 1 kVA :'], ['49', '8504.40', 'Static converters', '8504.40', '- Static converters :'], ['50', '8504.90', 'Parts', '8504.90', '- Parts :'], ['51', '8512.20', 'Other lighting or visual signaling\nequipment', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual\nsignalling equipment :'], ['52', '8512.90', 'Parts', '8512.90', '- Parts :'], ['53', '8516.80', 'Electric heating resistors', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors :'], ['54', '8517.90', 'Parts', 'ex 8517.70', '- Parts :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8443.99', '- - Other :'], ['55', '8529.90', 'Other', 'ex 8517.70', '- Parts :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8529.90', '- Other :'], ['56', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits', '8534.00', '- Single-sided']]
INDONESIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['57', '8536.30', 'Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits'], ['58', '8536.50', 'Other switches', '8536.50', '- Other switches :'], ['59', '8536.69', 'Plugs and sockets', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets :'], ['60', '8536.90', 'Other apparatus', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus :'], ['61', '8538.90', 'Other', '8538.90', '- Other :'], ['62', '8539.29', 'Other', '8539.29', '- - Other :'], ['63', '8539.39', 'Other', '8539.39', '- - Other :'], ['64', '8540.91', 'Of cathode-ray tubes', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes'], ['65', '8543.89', 'Other', 'ex 8486.10', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8486.20', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor\ndevices or of electronic integrated\ncircuits :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8486.30', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter :'], [None, None, None, 'ex 8523.52', '- - “Smart cards”'], ['66', '8544.41', 'Fitted with connectors', 'ex 8544.42', '- - Fitted with connectors :'], ['67', '8544.70', 'Optical fibre cables: [ITA1/A-099]', '8544.70', '- Optical fibre cables:'], ['68', '8714.99', 'Other', '8714.99', '- - Other:'], ['69', '9013.80', 'Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments :'], ['70', '9101.11', 'With mechanical display only', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['71', '9101.12', 'With opto-electronic display only', 'ex 9101.19', '- - Other'], ['72', '9101.19', 'Other', 'ex 9101.19', '- - Other'], ['73', '9101.21', 'With automatic winding', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['74', '9101.29', 'Other', '9101.29', '- - Other'], ['75', '9101.91', 'Electrically operated', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['76', '9101.99', 'Other', '9101.99', '- - Other'], ['77', '9102.11', 'With mechanical display only', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['78', '9102.12', 'With opto-electronic display only', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only'], ['79', '9102.19', 'Other', '9102.19', '- - Other'], ['80', '9102.21', 'With automatic winding', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['81', '9102.29', 'Other', '9102.29', '- - Other'], ['82', '9102.91', 'Electrically operated', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated:'], ['83', '9102.99', 'Other', '9102.99', '- - Other'], ['84', '9111.10', 'Cases of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['85', '9111.20', 'Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['86', '9111.80', 'Other cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['87', '9111.90', 'Parts', '9111.90', '- Parts']]
INDONESIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['88', '9112.20', 'Cases', '9112.20', '- Cases'], ['89', '9112.90', 'Parts', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['90', '9113.10', 'Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal'], ['91', '9113.20', 'Of base metal, whether or not gold-\nor silver-plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['92', '9113.90', 'Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['93', '9114.10', 'Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['94', '9114.20', 'Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['95', '9114.30', 'Dials', '9114.30', '- Dials'], ['96', '9114.40', 'Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges'], ['97', '9114.90', 'Other', '9114.90', '- Other'], ['98', '9404.90', 'Other', '9404.90', '- Other:'], ['99', '9502.91', 'Garments and accessories\ntherefore, footwear and headgear', '9503.00.22', '- - - Garments and garments\naccessories; footwear and\nheadgear'], ['100', '9503.49', 'Other', '9503.00.99', '- - Other']]
LAO PDR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '2923.90', '- Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals'], ['3', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers'], ['4', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12'], ['5', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms.', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms.'], ['6', '4016.99', '-- Other', '4016.99', '- - Other'], ['7', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['8', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials'], ['9', '4202.19', '- - Other', '4202.19', '- - Other'], ['10', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['11', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['12', '4202.29', '- - Other', '4202.29', '- - Other'], ['13', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['14', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['15', '4202.99', '- - Other', '4202.99', '- - Other'], ['16', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel'], ['17', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports'], ['18', '6115.19', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for\nvaricose veins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['19', '6115.20', "- Women's full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex", 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for\nvaricose veins)'], ['20', '6115.92', '- - Of cotton', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for\nvaricose veins)'], ['21', '6115.93', '- - Of synthetic fibres', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for\nvaricose veins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.96', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['22', '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for\nvaricose veins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['23', '6211.20', '- Ski suits', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['24', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['25', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['26', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles']]
LAO PDR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['27', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated\nor clad with other precious metal', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated\nor clad with other precious metal'], ['28', '7113.19', '- - Of other precious metal,\nwhether or not plated or clad with\nprecious metal', '7113.19', '- - Of other precious metal,\nwhether or not plated or clad with\nprecious metal'], ['29', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious\nmetal', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious\nmetal'], ['30', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['31', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic, or\nreconstructed)', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic or\nreconstructed)'], ['32', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs'], ['33', '7117.19', '- - Other', '7117.19', '- - Other'], ['34', '7117.90', '- Other', '7117.90', '- Other'], ['35', '7315.20', '- Skid chain', '7315.20', '- Skid chain'], ['36', '7419.99', '- - Other', '7419.99', '- - Other'], ['37', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching'], ['38', '8215.91', '- - Plated with precious metal', '8215.91', '- - Plated with precious metal'], ['39', '8215.99', '- - Other', '8215.99', '- - Other'], ['40', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles suitable for motor\nvehicles', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles suitable for motor\nvehicles'], ['41', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines'], ['42', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water'], ['43', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water'], ['44', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines'], ['45', '8421.29', '- - Other', '8421.29', '- - Other'], ['46', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines'], ['47', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69'], ['48', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types', 'ex8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus\nspecified in Note 9 (C) to this\nChapter'], [None, None, None, '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types'], ['49', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling\ncapacity not exceeding 1 kVA:', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling\ncapacity not exceeding 1 kVA'], ['50', '8504.40', '- Static converters', '8504.40', '- Static converters'], ['51', '8504.90', '- Parts', '8504.90', '- Parts'], ['52', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment'], ['53', '8512.90', '- Parts', '8512.90', '- Parts'], ['54', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors'], ['55', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits.', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits.'], ['56', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits']]
LAO PDR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['57', '8536.50', '- Other switches', '8536.50', '- Other switches'], ['58', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets'], ['59', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus'], ['60', '8538.90', '- Other', '8538.90', '- Other'], ['61', '8539.29', '- - Other', '8539.29', '- - Other'], ['62', '8539.39', '- - Other', '8539.39', '- - Other'], ['63', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes'], ['64', '8543.89', '- - Other', 'ex8486.10', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.20', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor\ndevices or of electronic integrated\ncircuits'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.30', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus\nspecified in Note 9 (C) to this\nChapter'], [None, None, None, 'ex8523.52', '- - “Smart cards”'], [None, None, None, 'ex8543.70', '- Other machines and apparatus'], ['65', '8544.41', '- - Fitted with connectors', 'ex8544.42', '- - Fitted with connectors'], ['66', '8544.70', '- Optical fibre cables', '8544.70', '- Optical fibre cables'], ['67', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments'], ['68', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['69', '9101.12', '- - With Opto-electronic display\nonly', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['70', '9101.19', '- - Other', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['71', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['72', '9101.29', '- - Other', '9101.29', '- - Other'], ['73', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['74', '9101.99', '- - Other', '9101.99', '- - Other'], ['75', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['76', '9102.12', '- - With Opto-electronic display\nonly', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only'], ['77', '9102.19', '- - Other', '9102.19', '- - Other'], ['78', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['79', '9102.29', '- - Other', '9102.29', '- - Other'], ['80', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['81', '9102.99', '- - Other', '9102.99', '- - Other'], ['82', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['83', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['84', '9111.80', '- Other cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['85', '9111.90', '- Parts', '9111.90', '- Parts'], ['86', '9112.20', '- Cases', '9112.20', '- Cases'], ['87', '9112.90', '- Parts', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['88', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal']]
LAO PDR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['89', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['90', '9113.90', '- Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['91', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['92', '9114.20', '- Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['93', '9114.30', '- Dials', '9114.30', '- Dials'], ['94', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges'], ['95', '9114.90', '- Other', '9114.90', '- Other'], ['96', '9502.10', '- Dolls, whether or not dressed', '9503.00.21', '- - Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['97', '9502.91', '- - Garments and accessories\ntherefore, footwear and headgear', '9503.00.22', '- - - Garments and garments\naccessories; footwear and\nheadgear'], ['98', '9503.41', '- - Stuffed', '9503.00.60', '- Stuffed toys representing animals\nor non-human creatures'], ['99', '9503.49', '- - Other', 'ex9503.00.99', '- Other'], ['100', '9503.90', '- Other', 'ex9503.00.91', '- - Numerical, alphabetical or\nanimal blocks or cut-outs; word\nbuilder sets; word making and\ntalking sets; toy printing sets ; toy\ncounting frames (abaci); toy\nsewing machines; toy typewriters'], [None, None, None, '9503.00.92', '- - Skipping ropes'], [None, None, None, '9503.00.93', '- - Marbles'], [None, None, None, 'ex9503.00.99', '- Other']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '292390', 'Other', '2923.90', 'Other'], ['2', '392330', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles for the conveyance or\npackaging of goods, of plastics', '3923.30', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles for the conveyance or\npackaging of goods, of plastics'], ['3', '392690', 'Articles of plastics and articles of\nother materials of heading 3901 to\n3914, n.e.s', '3926.90', 'Articles of plastics and articles of\nother materials of heading 3901 to\n3914, n.e.s'], [None, None, None, '3006.91', 'Applieances identifiable for ostomy\nuse'], [None, None, None, '8536.70', 'Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibre bundles or cables'], ['4', '401699', 'Articles of vulcanised rubber (excl.\nhard rubber), n.e.s.', '4016.99', 'Articles of vulcanised rubber (excl.\nhard rubber), n.e.s.'], ['5', '420211', 'With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or patent\nleather', '4202.11', 'Wih outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or patent\nleather'], ['6', '420212', 'With outer surface of plastic or of\ntextile materials', '4202.12', 'With outer surface of plastic or of\ntextile materials'], ['7', '420221', 'With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent', '4202.21', 'With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['8', '420222', 'With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile', '4202.22', 'With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile material'], ['9', '420229', 'Handbags, whether or not with\nshoulder strap, incl. those without\nhandle, with outer surface of\nvulcanised fibre or paperboard, or\nwholly or mainly covered with such\nmaterials or with paper', '4202.29', 'Handbags, whether or not with\nshoulder strap, incl. those without\nhandle,of other material'], ['10', '420292', 'Other', '4202.92', 'Other,with outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile material,other\nthan bowling bag'], ['11', '420321', 'Wrist guards for bowling', '4203.21', 'Specially designed for use in\nsport(wrist guards for bowling )'], ['12', '581092', 'Embroidery of man-made fibres on\na textile fabric base, in the piece, in\nstrips or in motifs (excl. embroidery\nwithout visible ground)', '5810.92', 'Embroidery of man-made fibres, in\nthe piece, in strips or in motifs\n(excl. embroidery without visible\nground)'], ['13', '610899', "Women's or girls' negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns, house\njackets and similar articles of textile\nmaterials, knitted or crocheted\n(excl. of cotton or man-made fibres,\nvests, slips, petticoats, briefs and\npanties, nightdresses, pyjamas,\nbrassieres, girdles, corsets and\nsimilar articles)", '6108.99', "Other women's or girls' articles of\nother textile materials"]]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['14', '611599', "Full-length or knee-length\nstockings, socks and other hosiery,\nincl. stockings for varicose veins\nand footwear without applied soles,\nof textile materials, knitted or\ncrocheted (excl. of wool, fine\nanimal hair, cotton or synthetic\nfibres, panty hose and tights,\nwomen's full-length or knee-length\nstockings, measuring per single\nyarn < 67 decitex, and hosiery for\nbabies)", '6115.99', 'Other hosiery of other textile\nmaterial'], [None, None, None, '6115.10', 'Graduated compresion hosiery (for\nexample, stockings for varicose\nveins) Other panty hose and tights'], ['15', '611710', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like', '6117.10', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like'], ['16', '611720', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats', '6117.80', 'Other (Ties, bow ties and cravats)'], ['17', '620113', 'Of man-made fibres', '6201.13', 'Of man-made fibres'], ['18', '620192', 'Of cotton', '6201.92', 'Of cotton'], ['19', '620193', 'Of man-made fibres', '6201.93', 'Of man-made fibres'], ['20', '620212', 'Of cotton', '6202.12', 'Of cotton'], ['21', '620213', 'Of man-made fibres', '6202.13', 'Of man-made fibres'], ['22', '620292', 'Of cotton', '6202.92', 'Of cotton'], ['23', '620293', 'Of man-made fibres', '6202.93', 'Of man-made fibres'], ['24', '620319', "Men's or boys' suits of textile\nmaterials (excl. of wool, fine animal\nhair or synthetic fibres, knitted or\ncrocheted, track suits, ski suits and\nswimwear)", '6203.19', "Men's or boys' suits of textile\nmaterials"], ['25', '620469', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts of textile materials (excl. of\nwool, fine animal hair, cotton or\nsynthetic fibres, knitted or\ncrocheted, panties and swimwear)", '6204.69', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts of textile materials"], ['26', '620590', "Men's or boys' shirts of textile\nmaterials (excl. of wool, fine animal\nhair, cotton or man-made fibres,\nknitted or crocheted, nightshirts,\nsinglets and other vests)", '6205.90', "Men's or boys' shirts of other textile\nmaterials"], ['27', '621142', 'Prayer cloaks', '6211.42', "Other garments, women's or girl's\nof cotton (prayer cloaks)"], ['28', '621143', 'Prayer cloaks', '6211.43', "Other garments, women's or girl's\nof man-made fibres (prayer cloaks)"], ['29', '621290', 'Other', '6212.90', 'Other'], ['30', '621310', 'Of silk or silk waste', '6213.90', 'Handkerchiefs, of other textile\nmaterials (of silk or silk waste )'], ['31', '621320', 'Of cotton', '6213.20', 'Handkerchiefs, of cotton']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['32', '621390', 'Of other textile materials', '6213.90', 'Handkerchiefs, of other textile\nmaterials'], ['33', '621410', 'Prayer scarves', '6214.10', 'Of silk or silk waste (prayer\nscarves)'], ['34', '621420', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '6214.20', 'Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['35', '621430', 'Prayer scarves', '6214.30', 'Of synthetic fibres, (prayer scarves)'], ['36', '621490', 'Of other textile materials', '6214.90', 'Of other textile materials:'], ['37', '621600', 'Of other textile materials', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts (of other\ntextile materials)'], ['38', '630392', 'Curtains, incl. drapes, and interior\nblinds, curtain or bed valances of\nsynthetic fibres (excl. knitted or\ncrocheted, awnings and sun-blinds)', '6303.92', 'Curtains, incl. drapes, and interior\nblinds, curtain or bed valances of\nsynthetic fibres (excl. knitted or\ncrocheted, awnings and sunblinds)'], ['39', '640219', 'Sports footwear with outer soles\nand uppers of rubber or plastics\n(excl. waterproof footwear of\nheading 6401, ski-boots, cross-\ncountry ski footwear, snowboard\nboots and skating boots with ice or\nroller skates attached)', '6402.20', 'Sports footwear with outer soles\nand uppers of rubber or plastics\n(excl. ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear, snowboard boots and\nskating boots with ice or roller\nskates attached)'], ['40', '640220', 'Footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics, with\nupper straps or thongs assembled\ntothe sole by means of plugs (excl.\ntoy footwear)', '6402.20', 'Footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics, with\nupper straps or thongs assembled\ntothe sole by means of plugs'], ['41', '640230', 'Footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toecap, with outer\nsoles and uppers of rubber or\nplastics(excl. waterproof footwear\nof heading 6401, sports footwear\nand orthopaedic footwear)', '6402.91', 'Other footwear covering the ankle\n(incorporating a protective metal\ntoecap, with outer soles and uppers\nof rubber or plastics)'], [None, None, None, '6402.99', 'Other footwear not covering the\nankle (incorporating a protective\nmetal toecap, with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics)'], ['42', '640291', 'Footwear covering the ankle, with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nplastics (excl. incorporating a\nprotective metal toecap, waterproof\nfootwear of heading 6401, sports\nfootwear, orthopaedic footwear and\ntoy footwear)', '6402.91', 'Footwear covering the ankle, with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nplastics (excl. incorporating a\nprotective metal toecap))'], ['43', '640319', 'Other', '6403.19', 'Other']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['44', '640320', 'Footwear with outer soles of leather\nand uppers which consist of leather\nstraps across the instep and\naround the big toe', '6403.20', 'Footwear with outer soles of leather\nand uppers which consist of leather\nstraps across the instep and\naround the big toe'], ['45', '640330', 'Footwear with leather uppers,\nmade on a base or platform of\nwood, with neither an inner sole nor\na protective metal toecap', '6403.91', 'Other footwear covering the ankle\n(with leather uppers, made on a\nbase or platform of wood, not\nhaving an inner sole nor a\nprotective metal toecap'], [None, None, None, '6403.99', 'Other footwear not covering the\nankle (with leather uppers, made\non a base or platform of wood, not\nhaving an inner sole nor a\nprotective metal toecap'], ['46', '640351', 'Covering the ankle', '6403.51', 'Covering the ankle'], ['47', '640359', 'Other footwear', '6403.59', 'Other footwear'], ['48', '640391', 'Covering the ankle', '6403.91', 'Other footwear,Covering the ankle'], ['49', '640411', 'Sports footwear, incl. tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes,\ntraining shoes and the like, with\nouter soles of rubber or plastics\nand uppers of textile materials', '6404.11', 'Sports footwear, tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes,\ntraining shoes and the like( with\nouter soles of rubber or plastics\nand uppers of textile materials)'], ['50', '640510', 'With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather', '6405.10', 'With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather'], ['51', '640520', 'With uppers of textile materials', '6405.20', 'With uppers of textile materials'], ['52', '640590', 'Other', '6405.90', 'Other'], ['53', '640699', 'Middle or inner soles', '6406.99', 'Of other materials (middle or inner\nsoles)'], ['54', '701510', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', 'Glasses for correcive spectacles'], ['55', '741999', 'Articles of copper, n.e.s.', '7419.99', 'Other (articles of copper, n.e.s.)'], [None, None, None, '8536.70', 'Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibre bundles or cables'], ['56', '821591', 'Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers,\ncake-servers, fish-knives, butter-\nknives, sugar tongs and similar\nkitchen or tableware of base metal,\nplated with precious metal (excl.\nsets of articles such as lobster\ncutters and poultry shears)\nr cutters and poultry shears)', '8215.91', 'Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers,\ncake-servers, fish-knives, butter-\nknives, sugar tongs and similar\nkitchen or tableware of base metal,\nplated with precious metal (excl.\nsets of articles such as lobster\ncutters and poultry shears)\nr cutters and poultry shears)'], ['57', '830230', 'Other', '8302.30', 'Other mountings,fittings and similar\narticles suitable for motor vehicles\n(excl.bolts and hasps)'], ['58', '842121', 'For filtering or purifying water', '8421.21', 'For filtering or purifying water']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['59', '842490', 'Parts', '8424.90', 'Parts'], [None, None, None, '8486.90', 'Parts and accessories'], ['60', '847310', 'Parts and accessories of the\nmachines and heading 84.69', '8473.10', 'Parts and accessories of the\nmachines and heading 84.69'], ['61', '848071', 'Injection or compression types', '8480.71', 'Injection or compression types'], [None, None, None, '8486.40', 'Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter.'], ['62', '850490', 'Parts', '8504.90', 'Parts'], ['63', '851220', 'Other lighting or visual signaling\nequipment', '8512.20', 'Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment'], ['64', '851290', 'Parts', '8512.90', 'Parts'], ['65', '851790', 'Parts', '8517.70', 'Parts'], [None, None, None, '8443.99', 'Other'], ['66', '852990', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with transmission and\nreception apparatus for radio-\ntelephony, radio-telegraphy, radio-\nbroadcasting, television, television\ncameras, still image video cameras\nand other video camera recorders,\nradar apparatus, radio navigational\naid apparatus or radio remras and\nother video camera recorders,\nradar apparatus, radio navigational\naid apparatus or radio remote\ncontrol apparatus, n.e.s. (excl. for\naerials and aerial reflectors of all\nkinds)', '8529.90', 'Other parts suitable for use solely\nor principally with the apparatus of\nheading 85.25 to 85.28'], [None, None, None, '8517.70', 'Parts'], ['67', '853400', 'Printed circuits', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits'], ['68', '853630', 'Other', '8536.30', 'Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits'], ['69', '853650', 'Starters for electric motors', '8536.50', 'Other switches (starters for electric\nmotors)'], ['70', '853929', 'Filament lamps, electric (excl.\ntungsten halogen lamps, lamps of a\npower <= 200 W and for a voltage\n> 100 V and ultra-violet or infra-red\nlamps)', '8539.29', 'Other'], ['71', '853939', 'Discharge lamps (excl. flourescent,\nhot cathode lamps, mercury or\nsodium vapour lamps, metal halide\nlamps and ultra-violet lamps)', '8539.39', 'Other discharge lamps'], ['72', '854091', 'Of cathode-ray-tubes', '8540.91', 'Of cathode-ray-tubes']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['73', '854389', 'Other', '8486.10', 'Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers'], [None, None, None, '8486.20', 'Machines and appratus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor\ndevices or of electronic integrated\ncircuits'], [None, None, None, '8486.30', 'Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays'], [None, None, None, '8486.40', 'Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter.'], [None, None, None, '8523.52', '"Smart cards"'], [None, None, None, '8543.70', 'Other machines and apparatus'], ['74', '854441', 'Electric conductors for a voltage <=\n80 V, insulated, fitted with\nconnectors, n.e.s.', '8544.42', '- - Fitted with connectors:'], ['75', '870899', 'Parts and accessories, for tractors,\nmotor vehicles for the transport of\nten or more persons, motor cars\nand other motor vehicles principally\ndesigned for the transport of\npersons, motor vehicles for the\ntransport of goods and special\npurpose motor vehicles, n.e.s.', '8708.99', 'Other parts and accessories of a\nmotor vehicles of headings 87.01\nto 87.05'], [None, None, None, '8708.40', 'Gear boxes and parts thereof'], [None, None, None, '8708.50', 'Drive-axles with differential,\nwhether or not provided with other\ntransmission components, and non-\ndriving axles; parts thereof'], [None, None, None, '8708.80', 'Suspension systems and parts\nthereof (including shock-absorbers)\nOther parts and accessories'], [None, None, None, '8708.91', 'Radiators and parts thereof'], [None, None, None, '8708.92', 'Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust\npipes; parts thereof'], [None, None, None, '8708.94', 'Steering wheels, steering columns\nand steering boxes; parts thereof'], [None, None, None, '8708.95', 'Safety airbags with inflater system;\nparts thereof'], ['76', '871499', 'Parts and accessories, for bicycles,\nn.e.s.', '8714.99', 'Other (parts and accessories, for\nbicycles, n.e.s.)'], ['77', '901380', 'Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments', '9013.80', 'Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments'], ['78', '910111', 'With mechanical display only', '9101.11', 'With mechanical display only'], ['79', '910112', 'With opto-electronic display only', '9101.19', 'Other (with opto-electronic display\nonly)'], ['80', '910119', 'Other', '9101.19', 'Other'], ['81', '910121', 'With automatic winding', '9101.21', 'With automatic winding'], ['82', '910129', 'Other', '9101.29', 'Other'], ['83', '910191', 'Electrically operated', '9101.91', 'Electrically operated']]
MALAYSIA
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['84', '910211', 'With mechanical display only', '9102.11', 'With mechanical display only'], ['85', '910212', 'With opto-electronic display only', '9102.12', 'With opto-electronic display only'], ['86', '910221', 'With automatic winding', '9102.21', 'With automatic winding'], ['87', '910291', 'Electrically operated', '9102.91', 'Electrically operated'], ['88', '910299', 'Other', '9102.99', 'Other'], ['89', '911110', 'Cases of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal', '9111.10', 'Cases of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal'], ['90', '911120', 'Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold or silver plated', '9111.20', 'Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold or silver plated'], ['91', '911180', 'Other cases', '9111.80', 'Other cases'], ['92', '911190', 'Parts', '9111.90', 'Parts'], ['93', '911290', 'Parts', '9112.90', 'Parts'], ['94', '911310', 'Of precious metal or of clad with\nprecious metal', '9113.10', 'Of precious metal or of clad with\nprecious metal'], ['95', '911320', 'Of base metal, whether or not gold\nor silver-plated', '9113.20', 'Of base metal, whether or not gold\nor silver-plated'], ['96', '911410', 'Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', 'Springs, including hair-springs'], ['97', '911420', 'Jewels', '9114.20', 'Jewels'], ['98', '911430', 'Dials', '9114.30', 'Dials'], ['99', '911440', 'Flates and bridges', '9114.40', 'Flates and bridges'], ['100', '940490', 'Articles of bedding and similar\nfurnishing, fitted with springs or\nstuffed or internally filled with any\nmaterial or of cellular rubber or\nplastics (excl. mattress supports,\nmattresses, sleeping bags,\npneumatic or water mattresses and\npillows, blankets and covers)', '9404.90', 'Other (articles of bedding and\nsimilar furnishing, fitted with springs\nor stuffed or internally filled withany\nmaterial or of cellular rubber or\nplastics)']]
MYANMAR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '2923.90', '- Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals', '3907.10', '- Polyacetals'], ['3', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers'], ['4', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -\n6,10 or -6,12:'], ['5', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms', '3910.00', 'Silicones in primary forms.'], ['6', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar\narticles', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar\narticles'], ['7', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and\nsimilar articles', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and\nsimilar articles:'], ['8', '3923.50', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other\nclosures', '3923.50', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other\nclosures'], ['9', '3923.90', '- Other', '3923.90', '- Other'], ['10', '3926.90', '- Other', '3006.91', '- - Appliances identifiable for\nostomy use'], [None, None, None, 'ex3808.50', '- Goods specified in Subheading\nNote 1 to this Chapter:'], [None, None, None, 'ex3808.91', '- - Insecticides:'], [None, None, None, '3926.90', '- Other:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8536.70', '- Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibres bundles or cables'], ['11', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials:'], ['12', '4202.19', '- - Other', '4202.19', '- - Other:'], ['13', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition', '4202.21', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather'], ['14', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of', '4202.22', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials'], ['15', '4202.29', '- - Other', '4202.29', '- - Other'], ['16', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports'], ['17', '6211.20', '- Ski suits', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['18', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts', '6216.00', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.'], ['19', '6401.10', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6401.10', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['20', '6401.91', '- - Covering the knee', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['21', '6401.92', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee', '6401.92', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee'], ['22', '6401.99', '- - Other', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['23', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['24', '6402.19', '- - Other', '6402.19', '- - Other'], ['25', '6402.20', '- Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled', '6402.20', '- Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled to the sole by\nmeans of plugs'], ['26', '6402.30', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], [None, None, None, 'ex6402.99', '- - Other'], ['27', '6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], ['28', '6402.99', '- - Other', 'ex6402.99', '- - Other']]
MYANMAR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['29', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['30', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist\nof leather straps across the instep\nand around the big toe'], ['31', '6403.30', '- Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not', 'ex6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], [None, None, None, 'ex6403.99', '- - Other'], ['32', '6403.40', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal', '6403.40', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['33', '6403.51', '- - Covering the ankle', '6403.51', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['34', '6403.59', '- - Other', '6403.59', '- - Other'], ['35', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle', 'ex6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['36', '6403.99', '- - Other', 'ex6403.99', '- - Other'], ['37', '6404.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or', '6404.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or composition leather'], ['38', '6405.10', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather', '6405.10', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather'], ['39', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials'], ['40', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners:'], ['41', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber\nor plastics', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber\nor plastics'], ['42', '6406.91', '- - Of wood', '6406.91', '- - Of wood'], ['43', '6914.90', '- Other', '6914.90', '- Other'], ['44', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['45', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching'], ['46', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles suitable for motor\nvehicles'], ['47', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines:'], ['48', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water:'], ['49', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water:'], ['50', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol - filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines:'], ['51', '8421.29', '- - Other', '8421.29', '- - Other:'], ['52', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines:'], ['53', '8424.90', '- Parts', '8424.90', '- Parts:'], ['54', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69:']]
MYANMAR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['55', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter:'], ['56', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling\ncapacity not exceeding', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling\ncapacity not exceeding 1 kVA:'], ['57', '8504.40', '- Static converters', '8504.40', '- Static converters:'], ['58', '8504.90', '- Parts', '8504.90', '- Parts:'], ['59', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signaling\nequipment', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment:'], ['60', '8512.90', '- Parts', '8512.90', '- Parts:'], ['61', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors:'], ['62', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits [ITA1/A-072]', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits.'], ['63', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits'], ['64', '8536.50', '- Other switches', '8536.50', '- Other switches:'], ['65', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets:'], ['66', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus:'], ['67', '8538.90', '- Other', '8538.90', '- Other:'], ['68', '8539.29', '- - Other', '8539.29', '- - Other:'], ['69', '8539.39', '- - Other', '8539.39', '- - Other:'], ['70', '8708.99', '- - Other', 'ex8708.40', '- Gear boxes and parts thereof;'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.50', '- Drive-axles with differential,\nwhether or not provided with other\ntransmission components, and non-\ndriving axles; parts thereof:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.80', '- Suspension systems and parts\nthereof (including shock-\nabsorbers):'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.91', '- - Radiators and parts thereof:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.92', '- - Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust\npipes; parts thereof:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.94', '- - Steering wheels, steering\ncolumns and steering boxes; parts\nthereof:'], [None, None, None, 'ex8708.95', '- - Safety airbags with inflater\nsystem; parts thereof:'], [None, None, None, '8708.99', '- - Other:'], ['71', '8714.99', '- - Other', '8714.99', '- - Other:'], ['72', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments:'], ['73', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['74', '9101.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['75', '9101.19', '- - Other', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['76', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['77', '9101.29', '- - Other', '9101.29', '- - Other'], ['78', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['79', '9101.99', '- - Other', '9101.99', '- - Other']]
MYANMAR
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['80', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['81', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display\nonly'], ['82', '9102.19', '- - Other', '9102.19', '- - Other'], ['83', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['84', '9102.29', '- - Other', '9102.29', '- - Other'], ['85', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated:'], ['86', '9102.99', '- - Other', '9102.99', '- - Other'], ['87', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['88', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['89', '9111.80', '- Other cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['90', '9111.90', '- Parts', '9111.90', '- Parts'], ['91', '9112.20', '- Cases', '9112.20', '- Cases'], ['92', '9112.90', '- Parts', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['93', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal'], ['94', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or sil', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['95', '9113.90', '- Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['96', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['97', '9114.20', '- Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['98', '9114.30', '- Dials', '9114.30', '- Dials'], ['99', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges'], ['100', '9114.90', '- Other', '9114.90', '- Other']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '2923.90', 'Other quaternary ammonium salts\nand hydroxides; lecithins and other\nphosphoaminolipids, whether or\nnot chemically defined', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '4202.11', 'Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases,\nexecutive-cases, brief-cases,\nschool satchels and similar\ncontainers with outer surface of\nleather, of composition leather or of\npatent leather', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather:'], ['3', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel', '4203.10', '- Articles of apparel'], ['4', '6107.11', "Men's or boys' underpants and\nbriefs, of cotton", '6107.11', '- - Of cotton'], ['5', '6107.12', "Men's or boys' underpants and\nbriefs, of man-made fibres", '6107.12', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['6', '6107.91', "Other men's or boys' underpants,\nbriefs, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of cotton", '6107.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['7', '6107.92', "Other men's or boys' underpants,\nbriefs, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of man-made fibres", '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['8', '6108.21', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of cotton", '6108.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['9', '6108.22', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of man-made fibres", '6108.22', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['10', '6108.91', "Women's or girls' pyjamas,\nnegliges, bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles, knitted\nor crocheted, of cotton", '6108.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['11', '6108.92', "Women's or girls' pyjamas,\nnegliges, bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles, knitted\nor crocheted, of man-made fibres", '6108.92', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['12', '6108.99', "Women's or girls' pyjamas,\nnegliges, bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles, knitted\nor crocheted, of other textile\nmaterials", '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['13', '6111.20', "Babies' garments and clothing\naccessories, knitted or crocheted,\nof cotton", '6111.20', '- Of cotton'], ['14', '6114.20', 'Other garments, knitted or\ncrocheted, of cotton', '6114.20', '- Of cotton']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['15', '6117.10', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like:', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like:'], ['16', '6201.11', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of wool or fine\nanimal hair", '6201.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['17', '6201.12', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of cotton", '6201.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['18', '6201.13', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of man-made\nfibres", '6201.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['19', '6201.92', "Men's or boys' anoraks (including\nski-jackets), wind-cheaters, wind-\njackets and similar articles, other\nthan those of heading 62.03, of\ncotton", '6201.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['20', '6201.93', "Men's or boys' anoraks (including\nski-jackets), wind-cheaters, wind-\njackets and similar articles, other\nthan those of heading 62.03, of\nman-made fibres", '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['21', '6202.12', 'Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks and similar articles,\nof cotton', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['22', '6202.13', 'Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks and similar articles,\nof man-made fibres', '6202.13', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['23', '6202.92', "Women's or girls' anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of cotton", '6202.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['24', '6202.93', "Women's or girls' anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of man-made fibres", '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['25', '6203.12', "Men's or boys' suits, of synthetic\nfibres", '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['26', '6203.19', "Men's or boys' suits, of other textile\nmaterials", '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials:'], ['27', '6203.31', "Men's or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof wool or fine animal hair", '6203.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['28', '6203.32', "Men's or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof cotton", '6203.32', '- - Of cotton']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['29', '6203.33', "Men's or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof synthetic fibers", '6203.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['30', '6203.42', "Men's or boys' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of cotton", '6203.42', '- - Of cotton:'], ['31', '6203.43', "Men's or boys' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of synthetic fibers", '6203.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['32', '6203.49', "Men's or boys' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of other textile materials", '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['33', '6204.11', "Women's or girls' suit, of wool or\nfine animal hair", '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['34', '6204.12', "Women's or girls' suit, of cotton", '6204.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['35', '6204.13', "Women's or girls' suit, of synthetic\nfibres", '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['36', '6204.31', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of wool or fine animal hair", '6204.31', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['37', '6204.32', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of cotton", '6204.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['38', '6204.33', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of synthetic fibres", '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['39', '6204.39', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of other textile materials", '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['40', '6204.41', "Women's or girls' dresses, of wool\nor fine animal hair", '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['41', '6204.42', "Women's or girls' dresses, of\ncotton", '6204.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['42', '6204.43', "Women's or girls' dresses, of\nsynthetic fibres", '6204.43', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['43', '6204.44', "Women's or girls' dresses, of\nartificial fibres", '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres'], ['44', '6204.49', "Women's or girls' dresses, of wool\nor fine animal hair", '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['45', '6204.51', "Women's or girls' skirts and divided\nskirts, of wool or fine animal hair", '6204.51', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['46', '6204.53', "Women's or girls' skirts and divided\nskirts, of synthetic fibres", '6204.53', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['47', '6204.59', "Women's or girls' skirts and divided\nskirts, of other textile materials", '6204.59', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['48', '6204.61', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of wool or fine animal hair", '6204.61', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['49', '6204.62', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of cotton", '6204.62', '- - Of cotton'], ['50', '6204.63', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of synthetic fibres", '6204.63', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['51', '6204.69', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of other textile materials", '6204.69', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['52', '6205.10', "Men's or boys' shirts, of wool or\nfine animal hair", '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['53', '6205.30', "Men's or boys' shirts, of man-made\nfibres", '6205.30', '- Of man-made fibres'], ['54', '6205.90', "Men's or boys' shirts, of other\ntextile materials", '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['55', '6206.10', "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts\nand shirt blouses, of silk or silk\nwaste", '6206.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['56', '6206.30', "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts\nand shirt-blouses.", '6206.30', '- Of cotton'], ['57', '6206.90', "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts\nand shirt-blouses, of other textile\nmaterials", '6206.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['58', '6207.21', "Men's or boys' nightshirts and\npyjamas, of cotton", '6207.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['59', '6211.20', 'Ski suits', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['60', '6211.41', 'Other garments, women’s or girls’\nof wool or fine animal hair', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['61', '6211.42', 'Other garments, women’s or girls’\nof cotton', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['62', '6211.43', 'Other garments, women’s or girls’\nof man-made fibres', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres:'], ['63', '6212.20', 'Girdles and panty-girdles', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles:'], ['64', '6213.20', "Handkerchiefs, of cotton'", '6213.20', '- Of cotton'], ['65', '6214.10', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like, of silk\nor silk waste', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['66', '6214.20', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like, of\nwool or fine animal hair', '6214.20', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['67', '6214.30', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like, of\nsynthetic fibres', '6214.30', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['68', '6214.90', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers,\nmantillas, veils and the like, of\nother textile materials', '6214.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['69', '6302.31', 'Other bed linen, of cotton', '6302.31', '- - Of cotton'], ['70', '6302.51', 'Other table linen, of cotton', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton'], ['71', '6302.53', 'Other table linen, of man-made\nfibres', '6302.53', '- - Of man-made fibres']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['72', '6303.91', 'Curtains (including drapes) and\ninterior blinds; curtain or bed\nvalances, not knitted or crocheted,\nof cotton', '6303.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['73', '6304.92', 'Other furnishing articles, excluding\nthose of heading 94.04, nes, not\nknitted or crocheted, of cotton', '6304.92', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton'], ['74', '6402.12', 'Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots,\nwith outer soles and uppers of\nrubber or plastics', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['75', '6403.12', 'Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots,\nwith outer soles of rubber, plastics,\nleather or composition of leather\nand uppers of leather', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['76', '6405.20', 'Other footwear with uppers of\ntextile materials', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials'], ['77', '6406.91', 'Other parts of footwear, of wood', '6406.91', '- - Of wood'], ['78', '7015.10', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['79', '7113.11', 'Articles of jewelry and parts\nthereof, of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal, of\nsilver, whether or not plated or clad\nwith other precious metal:', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated\nor clad with other precious metal:'], ['80', '7116.10', 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['81', '7116.20', 'Articles of precious or semi-\nprecious stones (natural, synthetic\nor reconstructed) of precious or\nsemi-precious stones (natural,\nsynthetic or reconstructed)', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic or\nreconstructed)'], ['82', '7117.11', 'Cuff-links and studs, of base metal,\nwhether or not plated with precious\nmetal', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs:'], ['83', '7315.20', 'Skid chain', '7315.20', '- Skid chain:'], ['84', '8207.30', 'Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching', '7315.20', '- Skid chain:'], ['85', '8421.22', 'Machinery for filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying\nbeverages other than water:'], ['86', '8421.29', 'Other filtering or purifying\nmachinery and apparatus for\nliquids', '8421.29', '- - Other:'], ['87', '8473.10', 'Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69:']]
PHILIPPINES
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['88', '9013.80', 'Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments:', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments:'], ['89', '9101.91', 'Other watches with case of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal, electrically\noperated', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['90', '9111.10', 'Watch cases of precious metal or\nof metal clad with precious metal', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['91', '9111.20', 'Watch cases of base metal,\nwhether or not gold- or silver-plated', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['92', '9111.80', 'Other watch cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['93', '9111.90', 'Parts of watch cases', '9111.90', '- Parts'], ['94', '9112.20', 'Clock cases and cases of a similar\ntype of goods of this Chapter', '9112.20', '- Cases'], ['95', '9112.90', 'Parts of goods of this Chapter', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['96', '9113.10', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal'], ['97', '9113.20', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal of base metal,\nwhether or not gold- or silver-plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['98', '9114.10', 'Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['99', '9114.20', 'Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['100', '9114.40', 'Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges']]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '4202.19', 'Other trunks, suit-cases, vanity-\ncases, executive-cases, brief-\ncases, school satchels and similar\ncontainers', '4202.19', 'Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases,\nexecutive-cases, brief-cases,\nschool satchels and similar\ncontainers of other materials (other\nthan leather, composition leather,\npatent leather, plastic or textile\nmaterials)'], ['2', '4203.10', 'Articles of apparel, of leather or\ncomposition leather', '4203.10', 'Articles of apparel, of leather or\ncomposition leather'], ['3', '4203.21', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts specially\ndesigned for use in sports, of\nleather or composition leather', '4203.21', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts specially\ndesigned for use in sports, of\nleather or composition leather'], ['4', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile materials\nassembled with padding by\nstitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10', '5811.00', 'Quilted textile products in the\npiece, composed of one or more\nlayers of textile materials\nassembled with padding by\nstitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10'], ['5', '6107.12', "Men's or boys' underpants and\nbriefs, of man-made fibres", '6107.12', "Men's or boys' underpants and\nbriefs, of man-made fibres"], ['6', '6107.91', "Other men's or boys' underpants,\nbrief, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of cotton", '6107.91', "Men's or boys' bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles (other\nthan underpants, brief, nightshirts\nand pyjamas), knitted or crocheted,\nof cotton"], ['7', '6107.92', "Other men's or boys' underpants,\nbrief, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of man-made fibres", '6107.99', "Men's or boys' bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles, (other\nthan underpants, brief, nightshirts\nand pyjamas) knitted or crocheted,\nof other textile materials"], ['8', '6107.99', "Other men's or boys' underpants,\nbrief, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of other textile materials", '6107.99', "Men's or boys' bathrobes, dressing\ngowns and similar articles ,(other\nthan underpants, brief, nightshirts\nand pyjamas) knitted or crocheted,\nof other textile materials"], ['9', '6108.21', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of cotton", '6108.21', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of cotton"], ['10', '6108.22', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of man-made fibres", '6108.22', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of man-made fibres"], ['11', '6108.29', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of other textile materials", '6108.29', "Women's or girls' briefs and\npanties, of other textile materials"]]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['12', '6108.91', "Other women's or girls' slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of cotton", '6108.91', "Women's or girls' , negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, (other than slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses and pyjamas) knitted\nor crocheted, of cotton"], ['13', '6108.92', "Other women's or girls' slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of man-made fibres", '6108.92', "Women's or girls' , negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, (other than slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses and pyjamas) knitted\nor crocheted, of man-made fibres"], ['14', '6108.99', "Other women's or girls' slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, of other textile materials", '6108.99', "Women's or girls' , negliges,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and\nsimilar articles, (other than slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses and pyjamas) knitted\nor crocheted, of other textile\nmaterials"], ['15', '6115.20', "Women's full-length or knee-length\nhosiery, measuring per single yarn\nless than 67 decitex", '6115.10', 'Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.30', "Other women's full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex"], ['16', '6115.93', 'Other panty hose, tights, stockings,\nsocks and other hosiery, including\nstockings for varicose veins and\nfootwear without applied soles,\nknitted or crocheted, of synthetic\nfibres', '6115.10', 'Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.96', 'Other panty hose, tights, stockings,\nsocks and other hosiery, and\nfootwear without applied soles,\nknitted or crocheted, of synthetic\nfibres'], ['17', '6117.20', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats', '6117.80', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats'], ['18', '6201.11', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of wool or fine\nanimal hair", '6201.11', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of wool or fine\nanimal hair"], ['19', '6201.12', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of cotton", '6201.12', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of cotton"], ['20', '6201.13', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of man-made\nfibres", '6201.13', "Men's or boys' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of man-made\nfibres"]]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['21', '6201.92', "Other men's or boys' overcoats, car-\ncoats, capes, cloaks, anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of cotton", '6201.92', "Men's or boys' anoraks (including\nski-jackets), wind-cheaters and\nwind-jackets, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of cotton"], ['22', '6201.93', "Other men's or boys' overcoats, car-\ncoats, capes, cloaks, anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of man-made fibres", '6201.93', "Men's or boys' anoraks (including\nski-jackets), wind-cheaters and\nwind-jackets, other than those of\nheading 62.03, of man-made fibres"], ['23', '6202.12', "Women's or girls' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of cotton", '6202.12', "Women's or girls' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of cotton"], ['24', '6202.13', "Women's or girls' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of man-made\nfibres", '6202.13', "Women's or girls' overcoats,\nraincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks\nand similar articles, of man-made\nfibres"], ['25', '6202.92', "Other women's or girls' overcoats,\ncar-coats, capes, cloaks, anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.04, of cotton", '6202.92', "Women's or girls' anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters and wind-jackets other\nthan those of heading 62.04, of\ncotton"], ['26', '6202.93', "Other women's or girls' overcoats,\ncar-coats, capes, cloaks, anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar\narticles, other than those of\nheading 62.04, of man-made fibres", '6202.93', "Women's or girls' anoraks\n(including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters and wind-jackets other\nthan those of heading 62.04, of\nman-made fibres"], ['27', '6203.21', "Men's or boys' ensembles, of wool\nor fine animal hair", '6203.29', 'Men’s or boys’ ensembles of other\ntextile materials'], ['28', '6203.31', "Men's or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof wool or fine animal hair", '6203.31', "Men's or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof wool or fine animal hair"], ['29', '6203.32', "Mens' or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof cotton", '6203.32', "Mens' or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof cotton"], ['30', '6203.33', "Mens' or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof synthetic fibres", '6203.33', "Mens' or boys' jackets and blazers,\nof synthetic fibres"], ['31', '6203.49', "Other men's or boys' suits,\nensembles, jackets, blazers,\ntrousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear), of other textile\nmaterials", '6203.49', "Men's or boys' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts (other than swimwear), of\nother textile materials"]]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['32', '6204.13', "Women's or girls' suits, of synthetic\nfibres", '6204.13', "Women's or girls' suits, of synthetic\nfibres"], ['33', '6204.33', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of synthetic fibres", '6204.33', "Women's or girls' jackets and\nblazers, of synthetic fibres"], ['34', '6204.44', "Women's or girls' dresses, of\nartificial fibres", '6204.44', "Women's or girls' dresses, of\nartificial fibres"], ['35', '6204.53', "Women's or girls' skirts and divided\nskirts, of synthetic fibres", '6204.53', "Women's or girls' skirts and divided\nskirts, of synthetic fibres"], ['36', '6204.61', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of wool or fine animal hair", '6204.61', "Women's or girls' trousers, bib and\nbrace overalls, breeches and\nshorts, of wool or fine animal hair"], ['37', '6205.10', "Men's or boys' shirts, of wool or\nfine animal hair", '6205.90', "Men's or boys' shirts, of wool or\nfine animal hair"], ['38', '6205.30', "Men's or boys' shirts, of man-made\nfibres", '6205.30', "Men's or boys' shirts, of man-made\nfibres"], ['39', '6206.10', "Women's or girls', blouses, shirts,\nand shirt-blouses, of silk or silk\nwaste", '6206.10', "Women's or girls', blouses, shirts,\nand shirt-blouses, of silk or silk\nwaste"], ['40', '6207.21', "Men's or boys' nightshirts and\npyjamas, of cotton", '6207.21', "Men's or boys' nightshirts and\npyjamas, of cotton"], ['41', '6211.20', 'Ski suits', '6211.20', "Men's or boys' ski suits"], ['42', '6211.41', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof wool or fine animal hair", '6211.41', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof wool or fine animal hair"], ['43', '6211.42', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof cotton", '6211.42', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof cotton"], ['44', '6211.43', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof man-made fibres", '6211.43', "Other garments, women's or girls'\nof man-made fibres"], ['45', '6212.10', 'Brassieres', '6212.10', 'Brassieres'], ['46', '6213.10', 'Handkerchiefs of silk or silk waste', '6213.90', 'Handkerchiefs of other textile\nmaterials'], ['47', '6213.20', 'Handkerchiefs of cotton', '6213.20', 'Handkerchiefs of cotton'], ['48', '6213.90', 'Handkerchiefs of other textile\nmaterials', '6213.90', 'Handkerchiefs of other textile\nmaterials'], ['49', '6214.20', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantilla,\nveils and the like, of wool or fine\nanimal hair', '6214.20', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantilla,\nveils and the like, of wool or fine\nanimal hair'], ['50', '6302.31', 'Other bed linen, of cotton', '6302.31', 'Other bed linen, of cotton'], ['51', '6302.32', 'Other bed linen, of man-made\nfibres', '6302.32', 'Other bed linen, of man-made\nfibres'], ['52', '6302.51', 'Other table linen, of cotton', '6302.51', 'Other table linen, of cotton'], ['53', '6302.53', 'Other table linen, of man-made\nfibres', '6302.53', 'Other table linen, of man-made\nfibres'], ['54', '6302.91', 'Other bed linen, table linen, toilet\nlinen and kitchen linen, of cotton', '6302.91', 'Other toilet linen and kitchen linen,\nother than toilet linen and kitchen\nlinen of cotton terry towelling or\nsimilar terry fabrics, of cotton']]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['55', '6303.92', 'Other curtains (including drapes)\nand interior blinds; curtain or bed\nvalances, of synthetic fibres', '6303.92', 'Other curtains (including drapes)\nand interior blinds; curtain or bed\nvalances, of synthetic fibres'], ['56', '6304.19', 'Other bedspreads', '6304.19', 'Other bedspreads'], ['57', '6304.92', 'Other furnishing articles, excluding\nthose of heading 94.04, not knitted\nor crocheted, of cotton', '6304.92', 'Other furnishing articles, excluding\nthose of heading 94.04, not knitted\nor crocheted, of cotton'], ['58', '6401.10', 'Footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or of plastics, the\nuppers of which are neither fixed to\nthe sole nor assembled by\nstitching, riveting, nailing, screwing,\nplugging or similar processes,\nincorporating a protective metal toe-\ncap', '6401.10', 'Footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or of plastics, the\nuppers of which are neither fixed to\nthe sole nor assembled by\nstitching, riveting, nailing, screwing,\nplugging or similar processes,\nincorporating a protective metal toe-\ncap'], ['59', '6401.91', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes, covering the\nknee', '6401.99', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes, covering the\nknee'], ['60', '6401.92', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes, covering the\nankle but not the knee', '6401.92', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes, covering the\nankle but not the knee'], ['61', '6401.99', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes', '6401.99', 'Other waterproof footwear with\nouter soles and uppers of rubber or\nof plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor\nassembled by stitching, riveting,\nnailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes'], ['62', '6402.12', 'Ski boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6402.12', 'Ski boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['63', '6402.20', 'Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled to the sole by\nmeans of plugs', '6402.20', 'Footwear with upper straps or\nthongs assembled to the sole by\nmeans of plugs']]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['64', '6402.30', 'Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6402.91', 'Other footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics,\ncovering the ankle'], [None, None, None, '6402.99', 'Other footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics'], ['65', '6403.20', 'Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist\nof leather straps across the instep\nand around the big toe', '6403.20', 'Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist\nof leather straps across the instep\nand around the big toe'], ['66', '6403.30', 'Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not having an\ninner sole or a protective metal toe-\ncap', '6403.99', 'Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not having an\ninner sole or a protective metal toe-\ncap'], ['67', '6403.91', 'Other footwear covering the ankle', '6403.91', 'Other footwear with outer soles of\nrubber or plastics and uppers of\nleather, covering the ankle'], ['68', '6404.19', 'Other footwear with outer soles of\nrubber or plastics', '6404.19', 'Other footwear with outer soles of\nrubber or plastics and uppers of\ntextile materials'], ['69', '6405.20', 'Other footwear with uppers of\ntextile materials', '6405.20', 'Other footwear with uppers of\ntextile materials'], ['70', '6406.10', 'Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners', '6406.10', 'Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners'], ['71', '6406.91', 'Other parts of footwear, of wood', '6406.91', 'Other parts of footwear, of wood'], ['72', '7015.10', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['73', '7113.11', 'Articles of jewelry of silver, whether\nor not plated or clad with other\nprecious metal', '7113.11', 'Articles of jewellery of silver,\nwhether or not plated or clad with\nother precious metal'], ['74', '7116.10', 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls', '7116.10', 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls'], ['75', '7116.20', 'Articles of precious or semi-\nprecious stones (natural, synthetic\nor reconstructed)', '7116.20', 'Articles of precious or semi-\nprecious stones (natural, synthetic\nor reconstructured)'], ['76', '7117.11', 'Imitation cuff-links and studs', '7117.11', 'Imitation cuff-links and studs'], ['77', '7315.20', 'Skid chain', '7315.20', 'Skid chain'], ['78', '8215.91', 'Other spoons, forks, ladels,\nskimmers, cake-servers, fish-\nknives, butter-knives, sugar tongs\nand similar kitchen or tableware,\nplated with precious metal', '8215.91', 'Spoons, forks, ladels, skimmers,\ncake-servers, fish-knives, butter-\nknives, sugar tongs and similar\nkitchen or tableware, plated with\nprecious metal, not in sets'], ['79', '8421.22', 'Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus for liquids, for filtering or\npurifying beverages other than\nwater', '8421.22', 'Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus for liquids, for filtering or\npurifying beverages other than\nwater'], ['80', '8714.99', 'Other parts and accessories of\nvehicles of headings 87.11 to 87.13', '8714.99', 'Other parts and accessories of\nvehicles of heading 87.12']]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['81', '9101.11', 'Wrist-watches with case of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal, electrically\noperated, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility,\nwith mechanical display only', '9101.11', 'Wrist-watches with case of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal, electrically\noperated, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility,\nwith mechanical display only'], ['82', '9101.29', 'Other wrist-watches with case of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility,\nwithout automatic winding', '9101.29', 'Other wrist-watches with case of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility,\nwithout automatic winding'], ['83', '9101.91', 'Other wrist-watches, pocket-\nwatches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, with case\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal, electrically\noperated', '9101.91', 'Pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, with case\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal, electrically\noperated'], ['84', '9101.99', 'Other wrist-watches, pocket-\nwatches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, with case\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal, not electrically\noperated', '9101.99', 'Pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, with case\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal, not electrically\noperated'], ['85', '9102.21', 'Other wrist-watches other than\nthose of heading 91.01, whether or\nnot incorporating a stop-watch\nfacility, with automatic winding', '9102.21', 'Other wrist-watches other than\nthose of heading 91.01, whether or\nnot incorporating a stop-watch\nfacility, with automatic winding'], ['86', '9102.91', 'Other wrist-watches, pocket-\nwatches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, other than\nthose of heading 91.01, electrically\noperated', '9102.91', 'Pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, other than\nthose of heading 91.01, electrically\noperated'], ['87', '9102.99', 'Other wrist-watches, pocket-\nwatches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, other than\nthose of heading 91.01, not\nelectrically operated', '9102.99', 'Pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, other than\nthose of heading 91.01, not\nelectrically operated'], ['88', '9111.10', 'Watch cases of precious metal or\nof metal clad with precious metal', '9111.10', 'Watch cases of precious metal or\nof metal clad with precious metal'], ['89', '9111.20', 'Watch cases of base metal,\nwhether or not gold- or silver-\nplated', '9111.20', 'Watch cases of base metal,\nwhether or not gold- or silver-\nplated'], ['90', '9111.80', 'Other watch cases', '9111.80', 'Other watch cases'], ['91', '9111.90', 'Parts of watch cases', '9111.90', 'Parts of watch cases'], ['92', '9112.20', 'Clock cases', '9112.20', 'Clock cases'], ['93', '9112.90', 'Parts of clock cases', '9112.90', 'Parts of clock cases']]
SINGAPORE
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['94', '9113.10', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '9113.10', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal'], ['95', '9113.20', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof base metal, whether or not gold-\nor silver- plated', '9113.20', 'Watch straps, watch bands and\nwatch bracelets, and parts thereof,\nof base metal, whether or not gold-\nor silver- plated'], ['96', '9114.10', 'Clock or watch springs, including\nhair-springs', '9114.10', 'Clock or watch springs, including\nhair-springs'], ['97', '9114.20', 'Clock or watch jewels', '9114.20', 'Clock or watch jewels'], ['98', '9114.30', 'Clock or watch dials', '9114.30', 'Clock or watch dials'], ['99', '9114.40', 'Clock or watch plates and bridges', '9114.40', 'Clock or watch plates and bridges'], ['100', '9502.91', 'Garments and accessories\ntherefore, footwear and headgear,\nfor dolls representing only human\nbeings', '9503.00', 'Tricycles, scooters, pedal cars and\nsimilar wheeled toys; dolls\'\ncarriages; dolls; other toys;\nreduced-size ("scale") models and\nsimilar recreational models,\nworking or not; puzzles of all kinds.'], ['1', '2923.90', '- Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '4016.99', '- - Other', '4016.99', '- - Other'], ['3', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton', '6107.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['4', '6107.92', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['5', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['6', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton', '6108.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['7', '6111.20', '- Of cotton', '6111.20', '- Of cotton'], ['8', '6114.20', '- Of cotton', '6114.20', '- Of cotton'], ['9', '6115.19', '- - Of other textile materials', 'ex6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose\nveins)'], [None, None, None, '6115.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['10', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton', '6201.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['11', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6201.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['12', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton', '6202.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['13', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton', '6202.92', '- - Of cotton'], ['14', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6202.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['15', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6203.12', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['16', '6203.21', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['17', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton'], ['18', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.11', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['19', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton'], ['20', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.13', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['21', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6204.33', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['22', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6204.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['23', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres', '6204.44', '- - Of artificial fibres'], ['24', '6205.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['25', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton'], ['26', '6211.20', '- Ski suits', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['27', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['28', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['29', '6213.20', '- Of cotton', '6213.20', '- Of cotton'], ['30', '6302.32', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6302.32', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['31', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton'], ['32', '6302.53', '- - Of man-made fibres', '6302.53', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['33', '6302.91', '- - Of cotton', '6302.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['34', '6303.91', '- - Of cotton', '6303.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['35', '6304.92', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton', '6304.92', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton'], ['36', '6402.30', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], [None, None, None, 'ex6402.99', '- - Other'], ['37', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist\nof leather straps across the instep\nand around the big toe', '6403.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather, and uppers which consist\nof leather straps across the instep\nand around the big toe'], ['38', '6403.30', '- Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not having an\ninner sole or a protective metal toe-\ncap', 'ex6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], [None, None, None, 'ex6403.99', '- - Other'], ['39', '6914.90', '- Other', '6914.90', '- Other'], ['40', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['41', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['42', '7315.20', '- Skid chain', '7315.20', '- Skid chain'], ['43', '7419.99', '- - Other', 'ex7419.99', '- - Other'], [None, None, None, 'ex8536.70', '- Connectors for optical fibres,\noptical fibres bundles or cables'], ['44', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching', '8207.30', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or\npunching'], ['45', '8215.91', '- - Plated with precious metal', '8215.91', '- - Plated with precious metal'], ['46', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings, and\nsimilar articles suitable for motor\nvehicles', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles suitable for motor\nvehicles'], ['47', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling\nmedium pumps for internal\ncombustion piston engines'], ['48', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water'], ['49', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filter for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines'], ['50', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal\ncombustion engines'], ['51', '8424.90', '- Parts', '8424.90', '- Parts'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.90', '- Parts and accessories'], ['52', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69'], ['53', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter'], ['54', '8504.90', '- Parts', '8504.90', '- Parts'], ['55', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment:'], ['56', '8512.90', '- Parts', '8512.90', '- Parts'], ['57', '8517.90', '- Parts', 'ex8517.70', '- Parts'], [None, None, None, 'ex8443.99', '- - Other'], ['58', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits.', '8534.00', 'Printed circuits'], ['59', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits'], ['60', '8536.50', '- Other switches', '8536.50', '- Other switches'], ['61', '8536.69', '- - Other', '8536.69', '- - Plugs and sockets'], ['62', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus'], ['63', '8538.90', '- Other', '8538.90', '- Other'], ['64', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes', '8540.91', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes'], ['65', '8543.89', '- - Other', 'ex8486.10', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.20', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor\ndevices or of electronic integrated\ncircuits'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.30', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays'], [None, None, None, 'ex8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified\nin Note 9 (C) to this Chapter'], [None, None, None, 'ex8523.52', '- - “Smart cards”'], [None, None, None, 'ex8543.70', '- Other machines and apparatus'], ['66', '8714.99', '- - Other', '8714.99', '- - Other'], ['67', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments'], ['68', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9101.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['69', '9101.12', '- - With opto-electronic display\nonly', '9101.19', '- - Other'], ['70', '9101.19', '- - Other', None, None], ['71', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['72', '9101.29', '- - Other', '9101.29', '- - Other'], ['73', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9101.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['74', '9101.99', '- - Other', '9101.99', '- - Other'], ['75', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['76', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display\nonly', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only'], ['77', '9102.19', '- - Other', '9102.19', '- - Other'], ['78', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding', '9102.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['79', '9102.29', '- - Other', '9102.29', '- - Other'], ['80', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated'], ['81', '9102.99', '- - Other', '9102.99', '- - Other'], ['82', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['83', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold-or silver-plated', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['84', '9111.80', '- Other cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['85', '9111.90', '- Parts', '9111.90', '- Parts'], ['86', '9112.90', '- Parts', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['87', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal'], ['88', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold-or silver-plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['89', '9113.90', '- Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['90', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['91', '9114.20', '- Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['92', '9114.30', '- Dials', '9114.30', '- Dials'], ['93', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges'], ['94', '9114.90', '- Other', '9114.90', '- Other'], ['95', '9404.90', '- Other', '9404.90', '- Other'], ['96', '9502.10', '- Dolls, whether or not dressed', '9503.00.21', '- - Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['97', '9502.91', '- - Garments and accessories\ntherefor, footwear and headgear', '9503.00.22', '- - - Garments and garments\naccessories; footwear and\nheadgear'], ['98', '9503.41', '- - Stuffed', '9503.00.60', '- Stuffed toys representing animals\nor non-human creatures'], ['99', '9503.49', '- - Other', 'ex9503.00.9\n9', '- - Other'], ['100', '9503.90', '- Other', 'ex9503.00.9\n9', '- - Other']]
VIET NAM
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['1', '292390', '- Other', '2923.90', '- Other'], ['2', '420212', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials:', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or\nof textile materials:'], ['3', '420219', '- - Other:', '4202.19', '- - Other:'], ['4', '420291', "- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of'patent\nleather:", '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather, of\ncomposition leather or of patent\nleather:'], ['5', '420292', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials:', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of plastic\nsheeting or of textile materials:'], ['6', '420299', '- - Other:', '4202.99', '- - Other:'], ['7', '420321', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports', '4203.21', '- - Specially designed for use in\nsports'], ['8', '610719', '- - Of other textile materials:', '6107.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['9', '610799', '- - - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6107.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['10', '610899', '- - Of other textile materials:', '6108.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['11', '611720', '- Ties, bow ties and cravats:', 'ex6117.80', '- Other accessories:'], ['12', '620321', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['13', '620510', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', 'ex6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['14', '621120', '- Ski suits:', '6211.20', '- Ski suits'], ['15', '621141', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '6211.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['16', '621142', '- - Of cotton:', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton'], ['17', '621210', '- Brassières:', '6212.10', '- Brassières:'], ['18', '621220', '- Girdles and panty-girdles:', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles:'], ['19', '621290', '- Other:', '6212.90', '- Other:'], ['20', '621310', '- Other:', 'ex6213.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['21', '621320', '- Of cotton', '6213.20', '- Of cotton'], ['22', '621390', '- Of other textile materials', 'ex6213.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['23', '621410', '- Of silk or silk waste', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['24', '621420', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '6214.20', '- Of wool or fine animal hair'], ['25', '621430', '- Of synthetic fibres', '6214.30', '- Of synthetic fibres'], ['26', '621490', '- Of other textile materials', '6214.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['27', '630251', '- - Of cotton', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton'], ['28', '630253', '- - Of man-made fibres:', '6302.53', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['29', '630291', '- - Of cotton', '6302.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['30', '630293', '- - Of man-made fibres:', '6302.93', '- - Of man-made fibres'], ['31', '630391', '- - Of cotton', '6303.91', '- - Of cotton'], ['32', '630392', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '6303.92', '- - Of synthetic fibres'], ['33', '630419', '- - Other:', '6304.19', '- - Other:'], ['34', '630492', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton:', '6304.92', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of\ncotton'], ['35', '640110', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6401.10', '- Footwear incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['36', '640191', '- - Covering the knee', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['37', '640192', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee', '6401.92', '- - Covering the ankle but not\ncovering the knee'], ['38', '640199', '- - Other', 'ex6401.99', '- - Other'], ['39', '640212', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6402.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['40', '640219', '- - Other', '6402.19', '- - Other'], ['41', '640230', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], [None, None, None, 'ex6402.99', '- - - Other']]
VIET NAM
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['42', '640291', '- - Covering the ankle', 'ex6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle:'], ['43', '640299', '- - Other', 'ex6402.99', '- - Other'], ['44', '640312', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots', '6403.12', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski\nfootwear and snowboard boots'], ['45', '640319', '- - Other:', '6403.19', '- - Other:'], ['46', '640330', '- Footwear made on a base or\nplatform of wood, not having an\ninner sole or a protective metal toe-\ncap', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], [None, None, None, '6403.99', '- - Other'], ['47', '640340', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '6403.40', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap'], ['48', '640351', '- - Covering the ankle:', '6403.51', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['49', '640359', '- - Other:', '6403.59', '- - Other'], ['50', '640391', '- - Covering the ankle:', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle'], ['51', '640399', '- - Other:', '6403.99', '- - Other'], ['52', '640411', '- - Sports footwear; tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes,\ntraining shoes and the like', '6404.11', '- - - Fitted with spikes, cleats or the\nlike'], [None, None, None, '6404.11', '- - - Other'], ['53', '640419', '- - Other', '6404.19', '- - Other'], ['54', '640420', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or composition leather:', '6404.20', '- Footwear with outer soles of\nleather or composition leather'], ['55', '640510', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather', '6405.10', '- With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather'], ['56', '640520', '- With uppers of textile materials', '6405.20', '- With uppers of textile materials'], ['57', '640590', '- Other', '6405.90', '- Other'], ['58', '640610', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners:', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other\nthan stiffeners:'], ['59', '640620', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber\nor plastics', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber\nor plastics'], ['60', '640691', '- - Of wood', '6406.91', '- - Of wood'], ['61', '640699', '- - Of other materials:', '6406.99', '- - Of other materials:'], ['62', '701510', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '7015.10', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles'], ['63', '711311', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated\nor clad with other precious metal:', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated\nor clad with other precious metal:'], ['64', '711319', '- - Of other precious metal, whether\nor not plated or clad with precious\nmetal:', '7113.19', '- - Of other precious metal, whether\nor not plated or clad with precious\nmetal:'], ['65', '711320', '- Of base metal clad with precious\nmetal:', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious\nmetal:'], ['66', '711610', '- Of natural or cultured pearls', '7116.10', '- Of natural or cultured pearls'], ['67', '711620', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic, or\nreconstructed)', '7116.20', '- Of precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic or\nreconstructed)'], ['68', '711711', '- - Cuff-links and studs:', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs:'], ['69', '711719', '- - Other:', '7117.19', '- - Other:'], ['70', '711790', '- Other:', '7117.90', '- Other:'], ['71', '847310', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69:', '8473.10', '- Parts and accessories of the\nmachines of heading 84.69:'], ['72', '901380', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments:', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments:']]
VIET NAM
[['No', 'HS 2002', 'Description of Goods', 'HS 2007', 'Description of Goods'], ['73', '910112', '- - With opto-electronic display only', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['74', '910119', '- - Other', 'ex9101.19', '- - Other'], ['75', '910121', '- - With automatic winding', '9101.21', '- - With automatic winding'], ['76', '910129', '- - Other', '9101.29', '- - Other'], ['77', '910199', '- - Other', '9101.99', '- - Other'], ['78', '910211', '- - With mechanical display only', '9102.11', '- - With mechanical display only'], ['79', '910212', '- - With opto-electronic display only', '9102.12', '- - With opto-electronic display only'], ['80', '910291', '- - Electrically operated:', '9102.91', '- - Electrically operated:'], ['81', '910299', '- - Other:', '9102.99', '- - Other'], ['82', '911110', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal', '9111.10', '- Cases of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal'], ['83', '911120', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated', '9111.20', '- Cases of base metal, whether or\nnot gold- or silver-plated'], ['84', '911180', '- Other cases', '9111.80', '- Other cases'], ['85', '911190', '- Parts', '9111.90', '- Parts'], ['86', '911290', '- Parts', '9112.90', '- Parts'], ['87', '911310', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '9113.10', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal'], ['88', '911320', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated', '9113.20', '- Of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated'], ['89', '911390', '- Other', '9113.90', '- Other'], ['90', '911410', '- Springs, including hair-springs', '9114.10', '- Springs, including hair-springs'], ['91', '911420', '- Jewels', '9114.20', '- Jewels'], ['92', '911430', '- Dials', '9114.30', '- Dials'], ['93', '911440', '- Plates and bridges', '9114.40', '- Plates and bridges'], ['94', '911490', '- Other', '9114.90', '- Other'], ['95', '940490', '- Other:', '9404.90', '- Other:'], ['96', '950210', '- Dolls, whether or not dressed', '9503.00.21', '- - Dolls, whether or not dressed'], ['97', '950291', '- - Garments and accessories\ntherefor, footwear and headgear', '9503.00.22', '- - - Garments and garments\naccessories; footwear and\nheadgear'], ['98', '950341', '- - Stuffed', '9503.00.60', '- Stuffed toys representing animals\nor non-human creatures'], ['99', '950349', '- - Other', 'ex9503.00.9\n9', '- - Other'], ['100', '950390', '- Other:', 'ex9503.00.9\n9', '- - Other'], [None, None, None, '9503.00.91', '- - Toy counting frames (abaci); toy\nsewing machines; toy typewriters'], [None, None, None, '9503.00.92', '- - Skipping ropes'], [None, None, None, '9503.00.93', '- - Marbles']]
 24th August 2006   To: ASEAN Economic Ministers  Dear Excellencies:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, that if a complaint is filed against an ASEAN Member Country on the implementation of Rule 6 in the WTO dispute settlement process, the Government of the Republic of Korea will provide financial, legal and/or any other necessary assistance, if requested, throughout the WTO dispute settlement process. If a final ruling of the WTO dispute settlement process finds against the ASEAN Member Country, the ASEAN Member Country concerned shall have the right to rescind the application of Rule 6.  Sincerely,  Kim Hyun-Chong Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea  cc.:  H.E. Mr. Ong Keng Yong Secretary General of ASEAN  ASEAN Economic Ministers  H.E. Lim Jock Seng Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Brunei Darussalam  H.E. Mr. Cham Prasidh Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce Kingdom of Cambodia  H.E. Dr. Mari Elka Pangestu Minister of Trade Republic of Indonesia 
 H.E. Dr. Nam Viyaketh Minister of Industry and Commerce Lao People’s Democratic Republic  H.E. Dato’ Seri Rafidah Aziz Minister of International Trade and Industry Malaysia  H.E. U Soe Tha Minister for National Planning and Economic Development Myanmar  H.E. Mr. Peter B. Favila Secretary of Trade and Industry Philippines  H.E. Mr. Lim Hng Kiang Minister for Trade and Industry Singapore  H.E. Mr. Truong Dinh Tuyen Minister of Trade Viet Nam                                                
24th August 2006   To: ASEAN Economic Ministers  Dear Excellencies:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of August 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the  Agreement on Trade in Goods, that application of Rule 6 shall be limited to goods which undergo working and processing in the industrial complex located in Gaeseong City and its surrounding area of North Korea and that the Government of the Republic of Korea ensures that its issuing authorities shall issue certificates of origin in accordance with Rule 6 and the Exchange of Notes regarding the Implementation and Monitoring of Rule 6 only to such goods.  Sincerely,  Kim Hyun-Chong Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea  cc.:  H.E. Mr. Ong Keng Yong Secretary General of ASEAN   ASEAN Economic Ministers  H.E. Lim Jock Seng Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Brunei Darussalam  H.E. Mr. Cham Prasidh Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce Kingdom of Cambodia  H.E. Dr. Mari Elka Pangestu Minister of Trade Republic of Indonesia  
H.E. Dr. Nam Viyaketh Minister of Industry and Commerce Lao People’s Democratic Republic  H.E. Dato’ Seri Rafidah Aziz Minister of International Trade and Industry Malaysia  H.E. U. Soe Tha Minister for National Planning and Economic Development Myanmar  H.E. Mr. Peter B. Favila Secretary of Trade and Industry Philippines  H.E. Mr. Lim Hng Kiang Minister for Trade and Industry Singapore  H.E. Mr. Truong Dinh Tuyen Minister of Trade Viet Nam    
27 February 2009   To: H.E. Mrs. Porntiva Nakasai Minister of Commerce The Kingdom of Thailand  Dear Excellencies:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the Agreement on Trade in Goods, that if a complaint is filed against an ASEAN Member Country on the implementation of Rule 6 in the WTO dispute settlement process, the Government of the Republic of Korea will provide financial, legal and/or any other necessary assistance, if requested, throughout the WTO dispute settlement process. If a final ruling of the WTO dispute settlement process finds against the ASEAN Member Country, the ASEAN Member Country concerned shall have the right to rescind the application of Rule 6.  Sincerely,    KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea   cc.:  Surin Pitsuwan  Secretary General of ASEAN  
27 February 2009   To: H.E. Mrs. Porntiva Nakasai Minister of Commerce The Kingdom of Thailand   Dear Excellencies:   I have the honour to refer to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) signed at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on twenty fourth day of August 2006.   I have further the honour of confirming the understanding of Parties, in relation to Rule 6 in Annex 3 (hereinafter referred to as “Rule 6”) of the  Agreement on Trade in Goods, that application of Rule 6 shall be limited to goods which undergo working and processing in the industrial complex located in Gaeseong City and its surrounding area of North Korea and that the Government of the Republic of Korea ensures that its issuing authorities shall issue certificates of origin in accordance with Rule 6 and the Exchange of Notes regarding the Implementation and Monitoring of Rule 6 only to such goods.  Sincerely,    KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  Republic of Korea   cc.:  Surin Pitsuwan  Secretary General of ASEAN  
   LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING AMONG THE PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN GOODS  UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND  THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS  ON THE BACK-TO-BACK CERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN    The Parties to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) have reached the following understanding on the back-to-back Certificate of Origin:  1. The provisions of Annex 3 and Appendix 1 to Annex 3 to the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall be applied to the implementation of the back-to-back Certificate of Origin arrangement.  2. For the purpose of monitoring trade between the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations under the Agreement on Trade in Goods, the issuing authority which issued the back-to-back Certificate of Origin as provided for in Appendix 1 to Annex 3 to the Agreement on Trade in Goods shall upon request by the customs authority of the importing Party provide such customs authority with information regarding the back-to-back Certificate of Origin.  3. Upon request of the customs authority of the importing Party, the issuing authority of the intermediate Party shall provide information pertaining to the original Certificate of Origin, such as the first exporter, last exporter, reference number, description of the goods, country of origin, and the port of discharge, within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request.  4. This Letter of Understanding takes effect on the same date as the Agreement on Trade in Goods and shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised thereto, have signed the Letter of Understanding among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE in duplicate copies in the English Language.  
For the Government of the Republic of Korea   HWANG WON-KUN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea to Brunei Darussalam    For the Government of Brunei Darussalam   LIM JOCK HOI Permanent Secretary Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade    For the Royal Government of Cambodia   PICH RITHI Deputy Director-General Ministry of Commerce    For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia   HERRY SOETANTO Director-General of International Trade Cooperation Ministry of Trade    For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic   BOUNTHONG VONGSALY Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Lao People’s Democratic Republic to Brunei Darussalam       
For the Government of Malaysia   DR. REBECCA FATIMA STA MARIA Deputy Secretary-General (Trade) Ministry of International Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Union of Myanmar   DAW MYO NWE Director-General Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development    For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines   ELMER C. HERNANDEZ Undersecretary Department of Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Republic of Singapore   SULAIMAH MAHMOOD Director Ministry of Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam   TRAN TRUNG THUC Director-General Ministry of Trade     
   LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING AMONG THE PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN GOODS  UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND  THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS  ON THE TARIFF RATE QUOTA    The Parties to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”) have reached the understanding on the Tariff Rate Quota as provided for in Paragraph 4(iv) in Annex 2 to the Agreement on Trade in Goods as reflected in the Attachment.   This Letter of Understanding takes effect on the same date as the Agreement on Trade in Goods and shall be treated as an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods.   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised thereto, have signed the Letter of Understanding among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE in duplicate copies in the English language.   For the Government of the Republic of Korea   HWANG WON-KUN Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea to Brunei Darussalam    For the Government of Brunei Darussalam   LIM JOCK HOI Permanent Secretary Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade  
For the Royal Government of Cambodia   PICH RITHI Deputy Director-General Ministry of Commerce    For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia   HERRY SOETANTO Director-General of International Trade Cooperation Ministry of Trade    For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic   BOUNTHONG VONGSALY Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Lao People’s Democratic Republic to Brunei Darussalam    For the Government of Malaysia   DR. REBECCA FATIMA STA MARIA Deputy Secretary-General (Trade) Ministry of International Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Union of Myanmar   DAW MYO NWE Director-General Ministry of National Planning and Economic Development       
For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines   ELMER C. HERNANDEZ Undersecretary Department of Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Republic of Singapore   SULAIMAH MAHMOOD Director Ministry of Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam   TRAN TRUNG THUC Director-General Ministry of Trade    
 Attachment: Korea's TRQ (Group D) Scheme in the Context of ASEAN-Korea FTA         Apr, 27,06 
[['No.', 'HS\nCode\n(6 digit)', 'HS Code\n(10 digit)', 'Description', 'Amount\nof Quota\nfor ASEAN\n(metric ton)', 'In-Quota\nRate', 'Out-Quota\nRate'], ['1', '030613', '0306131000', 'Frozen shrimps and\nprawns', '5,000', '0%', 'MFN Tariff\nRate'], [None, None, '0306139000', None, None, None, None], ['2', '030623', '0306231000', 'Live,fresh or chilled\nshrimps and prawns', '300', '0%', 'MFN Tariff\nRate'], ['3', '030749', '0307491010', 'Cuttle fish', '2,000', '0%', 'Subject to\nthe\nRequirement\nof Group B'], ['4', '071333', '0713331000', 'Kidney beans, including\nwhite pea\nbeans(phaseolus\nvulgaris)', '2,000', '0%', 'MFN Tariff\nRate'], [None, None, '0713339000', None, None, None, None], ['5', '071410', '0714101000', 'Manioc(cassava)', '25,000', '20%', 'MFN Tariff\nRate'], [None, None, '0714102010', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '0714102090', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '0714103000', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '0714104000', None, None, None, None], ['6', '110814', '1108140000', 'Manioc (cassava) starch', '9,600', '9%', 'MFN Tariff\nRate'], ['7', '160520', '1605209090', 'Other shrimps and\nprawns', '2,000', '0%', 'Subject to\nthe\nRequirement\nof Group B']]
       1. There will be no reduction of amount of quota allowed for the ASEAN Member Countries in the future.2. Korea may adopt or maintain import measures to allocate in-quota imports made pursuant to a tariff rate quota set out in Group D, provided that such measures do not have trade restrictive effects on imports additional to those caused by the imposition.   
   PROTOCOL ON THE ACCESSION OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND TO THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN GOODS UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS     The Governments of the Republic of Korea and Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  RECALLING the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, dated twenty fourth day of August 2006, hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Goods”;  RECALLING the agreement for the Kingdom of Thailand to be included in the Agreement on Trade in Goods only after the relevant signature on her behalf has been appended;  RECOGNISING the agreement that the Kingdom of Thailand may sign the Agreement on Trade in Goods at a later date provided that she complies with all the conditions required of a Party and submit all necessary documents required of a Party to Korea and ASEAN Secretariat; and  TAKING NOTE of the Summary of Decisions of the 22nd Korea-ASEAN Trade Negotiating Committee (KA-TNC) Meeting on the eleventh day of April 2008 in Busan, Republic of Korea, the Summary of Decisions of the 21st KA-TNC Meeting on the eighteenth day of January 2008 in Baguio, the Philippines, and the Summary of Record of the 9 SEOM-ROK Consultations on the thirteenth day of March 2008 in Siem Reap, Cambodia on the accession of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Goods,   HAVE AGREED as follows:   Article 1  1. The Kingdom of Thailand accedes to and shall be bound by the Agreement on Trade in Goods, including its Annexes and Letters of Understanding which form an 
integral part of that Agreement, as rectified, amended or otherwise modified before the date of entry into force of this Protocol.  2. The signature of the Kingdom of Thailand to this Protocol shall be treated as the signature of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Goods and Letters of Understanding which form an integral part of that Agreement.    Article 2   This Protocol, including its Attachments, shall be an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Goods. The following Attachments shall form part of this Protocol:     (a) Attachment I : Normal Track 2;  (b) Attachment II : Sensitive List; and  (c) Attachment III : Highly Sensitive List.   Article 3  The Schedule in Attachments I, II, and III to this Protocol shall become the Schedule of Concessions and Commitments annexed to the Agreement on Trade in Goods relating to the Kingdom of Thailand.  The staging of the concessions and commitments listed in the Schedule shall be implemented as specified in the relevant parts of the respective Schedule.   Article 4  In the event of any inconsistency between the Agreement on Trade in Goods, including its Annexes and Letters of Understanding which form an integral part of that Agreement, and this Protocol, including its Attachments, the former shall prevail over the latter with respect to the Kingdom of Thailand, except for the following:  (a) Attachment I : Normal Track 2;  (b) Attachment III : Highly Sensitive List; and  (c) Article 7 of this Protocol.   Article 5   Any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Protocol shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement on 
Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.   Article 6  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Protocol shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to each ASEAN Member Country.    Article 7  1. Subject to paragraph 2, this Protocol shall enter into force for all the Parties on the date on which the Kingdom of Thailand has notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures.  2. In the event that a Party notifies all the other Parties in writing within one (1) month from the date of signing of this Protocol that it requires to complete its internal procedures, this Protocol shall enter into force for that Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its internal procedures.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol on the Accession of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations.   DONE at Cha-am, Phetchaburi Province, Thailand, this 27day of February 2009, in duplicate copies in the English language.   For the Government of the Republic of Korea:     KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade  For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:     LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade  
   For the Royal Government of Cambodia:      CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce    For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:      MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade     For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:      NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce    For the Government of Malaysia:      TAN SRI MUHYIDDIN YASSIN Minister of International Trade and Industry       
 For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:      U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development    For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:      PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:      LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand:      PORNTIVA NAKASAI Minister of Commerce       
For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:      VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade     
[['HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION', 'UNIT', 'BASE RATE', None, 'RATE OF CUSTOMS DUTY', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'ad-\nvalorem\npercent', 'Specific\nBaht/\nUnit', '2008', '2009', '2010', '2011', '2012', '2013', '2014', '2015', '2016', '2017'], ['7209.15', '- - Of a thickness of 3\nmmormore', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7209.17', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5\nmm or more but not\nexceeding 1 mm', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7209.18', '- - Of a thickness of less\nthan 0.5 mm', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7209.27', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5\nmm or more but not\nexceeding 1 mm', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7209.28', '- - Of a thickness of less\nthan 0.5 mm', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7210.41', '- - Corrugated', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7210.49', '- - Other', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7210.69', '- - Other', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7210.70', '- Painted, warnished or\ncoated with plastics', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7210.90', '- Other', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7211.29', '- - Other', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7211.90', '- Other', '-', '7', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7212.10', '- Plated or coated with\ntin :', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7212.20', '- Electrolytically plated\nor coated with zinc', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7212.50', '- Otherwise plated or\ncoated', '-', '9', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7213.10', '- Containing\nindentations, ribs,\ngrooves or Other\ndeformations produced\nduring the rolling process', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7213.20', '- Other, of free-cutting\nsteel', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7213.91', '- - Of circular cross-\nsection measuring less\nthan 14 mm in diameter', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7213.99', '- - Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7214.10', '- Forged', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7214.20', '- Containing\nindentations, fibs,\ngrooves or other\ndeformations produced\nduring the rolling process\nor twisted after rolling', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7214.30', '- Other, of free-cutting\nsteel', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7214.91', '- - Of rectangular (other\nthan square) cross-\nsection', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7214.99', '- - Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.10', '- U, I or H sections, not\nfurther worked than hot-\nrooled, hot-drawn or\nextruded, of a height of\nless than 80 mm', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.21', '- - L sections', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.22', '- - T sections', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.31', '- - U section', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.32', '- - I section', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.50', '- Other angles, shapes\nand sections, not further\nworked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.61', '- - Obtained from flat-\nrolled products', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.69', '- - Other', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.91', '- - Cold-formed or cold-\nfinished from flat-rolled\nproducts', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7216.99', '- - Other', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7217.10', '- Not plated or coated,\nwhether or not polished', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7217.90', '- Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7219.31', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75\nmm or more', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7219.32', '- - Of a thickness of 3\nmm or more but less than\n4.75 mm', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7219.34', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5\nmm or more but not\nexceeding 1 mm', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7219.35', '- - Of a thickness of less\nthan 0.5 mm', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7219.90', '- Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7220.20', '- - Not further worked\nthan cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced)', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7220.90', '- Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7222.30', '- Other bars and rods', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7222.409', '- - - Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7223.00', 'Wire of stainless steel.', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7301.10', '- Sheet piling', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7305.90', '- Other', '-', '9', '-', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '3.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7306.30', '- Other, welded, of\ncircular cross-section, of\niron or non-alloy steel', '-', '9', '-', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '3.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['7306.90', '- Other', '-', '9', '-', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '7.00', '3.50', '0.00', '0.00'], ['3211.00', 'Prepared driers.', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['3213.10', '- Colours in sets', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '16.00', '12.00', '8.00', '4.00', '0.00'], ['3213.90', '- Other', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '16.00', '12.00', '8.00', '4.00', '0.00'], ['3303.00', 'Perfumes and toilet\nwaters.', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['3304.10', '- Lip make-up\npreparations', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['3304.20', '- Eye make-up\npreparations', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['3304.30', '- Manicure or pedicure\npreparations', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['3304.91', '- - Powders, whether or\nnot compressed', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['3304.99', '- - Other', '-', '30', '-', '27.00', '24.00', '21.00', '18.00', '15.00', '12.00', '9.00', '6.00', '3.00', '0.00'], ['4105.30', '- In the dry state (crust) :', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4107.11', '- - Full grains, unsplit', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4112.00', 'Leather further prepared\nafter tanning or crusting,\nincluding', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4113.10', '- Of goats or kids', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4113.20', '- Of swine', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4113.30', '- Of reptiles', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4113.90', '- Other', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4114.10', '- Chamois (including\ncombination chamois)\nleather', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4114.20', '- Patent leather and\npatent laminated leather;\nmetallised', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4115.10', '- Composition leather\nwith a basis of leather or\nleather fibre, in', 'KG', '5', '1.4', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['4202.11', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition\nleather or of', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4202.12', '- - With outer surface of\nplastics or of textile\nmaterials', '-', '40', '-', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '32.00', '24.00', '16.00', '8.00', '0.00'], ['4202.199', '- - - Other', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '16.00', '12.00', '8.00', '4.00', '0.00'], ['4202.21', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition\nleather or of', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4202.22', '- - With outer surface of\nplastic sheeting or of\ntextile materials', '-', '40', '-', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '32.00', '24.00', '16.00', '8.00', '0.00'], ['4202.29', '- - Other', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4202.91', '- - With outer surface of\nleather, of composition\nleather or of', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4202.92', '- - With outer surface of\nplastic sheeting or of\ntextile materials', '-', '40', '-', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '40.00', '32.00', '24.00', '16.00', '8.00', '0.00'], ['4203.29', '- - Other', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4203.40', '- Other clothing\naccessories', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['4205.00', 'Other articles of leather\nor of composition leather.', '-', '30', '-', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '30.00', '24.00', '18.00', '12.00', '6.00', '0.00'], ['7209.16', '- - Of a thickness\nexceeding 1 mm but less\nthan 3 mm', '-', '7', '-', '6.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7209.26', '- - Of a thickness\nexceeding 1 mm but less\nthan 3 mm', '-', '7', '-', '6.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7209.90', '- Other', '-', '7', '-', '6.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7210.11', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5\nmm or more', '-', '9', '-', '8.10', '7.20', '6.30', '5.40', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7210.12', '- - Of a thickness of less\nthan 0.5 mm', '-', '9', '-', '8.10', '7.20', '6.30', '5.40', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7210.50', '- Plated or coated with\nchromium oxides or with\nchromium', '-', '9', '-', '8.10', '7.20', '6.30', '5.40', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7210.61', '- - Plated or coated with\naluminium zinc alloys', '-', '9', '-', '8.00', '7.00', '6.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7211.13', '- - Rolled on four faces\nor in a closed box pass,\nof a width', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7211.14', '- - Other, of a thickness\nof 4.75 mm or more', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7211.19', '- - Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7211.23', '- - Containing by weight\nless than 0.25% of\ncarbon', '-', '7', '-', '6.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7212.30', '- Otherwise plated or\ncoated with zinc :', '-', '9', '-', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '4.50', '0.00'], ['7216.33', '- - H sections', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7216.40', '- L or T sections, not\nfurther worked than hot-\nrolled, hot-', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7217.20', '- Plated or coated with\nzinc', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '9.00', '8.00', '7.00', '6.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7217.309', '- - - Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '9.00', '8.00', '7.00', '6.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7219.33', '- - of a thickness\nexceeding 1 mm but less\nthan 3 mm', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7222.20', '- Bars and rods, not\nfurther worked than cold-\nformed or', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7301.20', '- Angles, shapes and\nsections', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '2.50', '0.00'], ['7305.39', '- - Other', '-', '9', '-', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '9.00', '4.50', '0.00'], ['7307.11', '- - Of non-malleable cast\niron', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.19', '- - Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.21', '- - Flanges', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.22', '- - Threaded elbows,\nbends and sleeves', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.23', '- - Butt welding fittings', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.29', '- - Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.91', '- - Flanges', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.92', '- - Threaded elbows,\nbends and sleeves', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7307.93', '- - Butt welding fittings', 'Kg', '10', '0.35', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7308.10', '- Bridges and bridge-\nsections', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7308.20', '- Towers and lattice\nmasts', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '10.00', '0.00'], ['7308.30', '- Doors, windows and\ntheir frames and\nthresholds for doors', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '10.00', '0.00'], ['7308.40', '- Equipment for\nscaffolding, shuttering,\npropping or', '-', '20', '-', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '10.00', '0.00'], ['7308.90', '- Other', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7310.10', '- Of a capacity of 50 l or\nmore', 'Kg', '10', '0.55', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7310.21', '- - Cans which are to be\nclosed by soldering or\ncrimping', 'Kg', '10', '0.55', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7310.29', '- - Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.55', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7312.10', '- Stranded wire, ropes\nand cables', 'Kg', '10', '0.55', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '9.00', '8.00', '7.00', '6.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7312.90', '- Other', 'Kg', '10', '0.55', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '9.00', '8.00', '7.00', '6.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7313.00', 'Barbed wire of iron or\nsteel; twisted hoop or\nsingle flat wire,', 'Kg', '20', '0.9', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '20.00', '10.00', '0.00'], ['7315.11', '- - Roller chain', '-', '10', '-', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '10.00', '5.00', '0.00'], ['7606.11', '- - Of aluminium, not\nalloyed', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7606.12', '- - Of aluminium alloys', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7606.91', '- - Of aluminium, not\nalloyed', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7606.92', '- - Of aluminium alloys', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7607.11', '- - Rolled but not further\nworked', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7607.19', '- - Other', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['7607.20', '- Backed', '-', '5', '-', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '5.00', '4.00', '3.00', '2.00', '1.00', '0.00'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0203.12', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['2', '0203.19', '- - Other'], ['3', '0203.22', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['4', '0203.29', '- - Other'], ['5', '0210.11', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in'], ['6', '0210.12', '- - Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof'], ['7', '0210.19', '- - Other'], ['8', '0603.10', '- Fresh'], ['9', '1101.00', 'Wheat or meslin flour.'], ['10', '1602.41', '- - Hams and cuts thereof'], ['11', '1602.42', '- - Shoulders and cuts thereof'], ['12', '1602.49', '- - Other, including mixtures'], ['13', '2004.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables'], ['14', '2301.20', '- Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates'], ['15', '2309.90', '- Other'], ['16', '3208.10', '- Based on polyesters'], ['17', '3208.20', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers'], ['18', '3208.90', '- Other'], ['19', '3209.10', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers'], ['20', '3209.90', '- Other'], ['21', '3210.00', 'Other paints and varnishes (including enamels, lacquers and disternpers); prepared water\npigments of a kind used for finishing leather'], ['22', '4002.11', '- - Latex'], ['23', '4004.00', 'Waste, parings and scrap of rubber (other than hard rubber) and powders and pgranules\nobtained therefrom.'], ['24', '4012.11', '- - Of a kind used on motor cars (including station wagons)'], ['25', '4012.12', '- - Of a kind used on buses or lorries'], ['26', '4012.13', '- - Of a kind used on aircraft'], ['27', '4012.19', '- - Other'], [None, '4012.191', '- - - Of a kind used on articles of headings 84.25 to 84.30 or heading 87.01'], [None, '4012.192', '- - - Of a kind used on bicycles'], [None, '4012.199', '- - - Other'], ['28', '4012.20', '- Used pneumatic tyres :'], [None, '4012.201', '- - - Of a kind used on articles of headings 84.25 to 84.30 or heading 87.01'], [None, '4012.202', '- - - Of a kind used on bicycles'], [None, '4012.209', '- - - Other'], ['29', '4107.12', '- - Grain splits'], ['30', '4107.19', '- - Other'], ['31', '4107.91', '- - Full grains, unsplit'], ['32', '4107.92', '- - Grain splits'], ['33', '4107.99', '- - Other'], ['34', '5001.00', 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling.'], ['35', '5004.00', 'Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk waste) not put up for retail sale.'], ['36', '5005.00', 'Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up for retail sale.'], ['37', '5006.00', 'Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste, put up for retail sale; silk-worm gut.'], [None, '5006.001', '- - - Silk-worm gut'], [None, '5006.009', '- - - Other'], ['38', '5007.10', '- Fabrics of noil silk'], ['39', '5007.20', '- Other fabrics, containing 85% or more by weight of silk or of silk waste other than nil silk'], ['40', '5007.90', '- Other fabrics'], ['41', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['42', '6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['43', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['44', '6204.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['45', '6204.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['46', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['47', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['48', '6204.59', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['49', '6204.69', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['50', '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['51', '6206.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['52', '6207.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['53', '6207.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['54', '6207.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['55', '6208.19', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['56', '6208.29', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['57', '6208.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['58', '6211.49', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['59', '6213.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['60', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste'], ['61', '6215.90', '- Of other textile materials'], ['62', '6303.99', '- - Of other textile materials'], ['63', '6304.99', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of other textile materials'], ['64', '6802.10', '- Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether or not rectangular (including square), the largest\nsurface area of which is capable of being enclosed in a square the side of which is less than\n7 cm; artificially coloured granules, chippings and powder'], ['65', '6802.21', '- - Marble, travertine and alabaster'], ['66', '6802.22', '- - Other calcareous stone'], ['67', '6802.23', '- - Granite'], ['68', '6802.29', '- - Other stone'], ['69', '6802.91', '- - Marble, travertine and alabaster'], ['70', '6802.92', '- - Other calcareous stone'], ['71', '6802.93', '- - Granite'], ['72', '6802.99', '- - Other stone'], ['73', '7019.90', '- Other :'], [None, '7019.901', '- - - Glass fibres (including glass wool)'], ['74', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs'], ['75', '7117.19', '- - Other'], ['76', '7117.90', '- Other'], ['77', '7208.10', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['78', '7208.25', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more'], ['79', '7208.26', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['80', '7208.27', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm'], ['81', '7208.36', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm'], ['82', '7208.37', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 10 mm'], ['83', '7208.38', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['84', '7208.39', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm'], ['85', '7208.40', '- Not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with patterns in relief'], ['86', '7208.51', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm'], ['87', '7208.52', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not exceeding 10 mm'], ['88', '7208.53', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75 mm'], ['89', '7208.54', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm'], ['90', '7208.90', '- Other'], ['91', '7317.00', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails, staples (other than those of heading 83.05) and\nsimilar articles, of iron or steel, whether or not with heads of other material, but excluding\nsuch articles with heads of copper.'], ['92', '7318.11', '- - Coach screws'], ['93', '7318.12', '- - Other wood screws'], ['94', '7318.13', '- - Screw hooks and screw rings'], ['95', '7324.10', '- Sinks and wash basins, of stainless steel'], ['96', '7324.29', '- - Other'], ['97', '7324.90', '- Other, including parts'], ['98', '7326.90', '- Other'], ['99', '7407.10', '- Of refined copper'], ['100', '8302.60', '- Automatic door closers'], ['101', '8402.11', '- - Watertube boilers with a steam production exceeding 45 t per hour'], ['102', '8402.12', '- - Watertube boilers with a steam production not exceeding 45 t per hour'], ['103', '8402.20', '- Super-heated water boilers'], ['104', '8407.31', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cc'], ['105', '8407.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250 cc'], ['106', '8414.51', '- - Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans, with a self-contained electric motor of an\noutput not exceeding 125W'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['107', '8414.59', '- - Other'], ['108', '8415.10', '- Window or wall types, self-contained or "split-system"'], ['109', '8415.20', '- Of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles'], ['110', '8418.10', '- Combined refrigeratorfreezers, fitted with separate external doors'], ['111', '8418.21', '- - Compression-type'], ['112', '8418.22', '- - Absorption-type, electrical'], ['113', '8418.29', '- - Other'], ['114', '8418.30', '- Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding 800 l capacity'], ['115', '8418.40', '- Freezers of the upright type, not exceeding 900 l capacity'], ['116', '8418.50', '- Other refrigerating or freezing chests, cabinets, display'], ['117', '8421.39', '- - Other'], ['118', '8428.10', '- Lifts and skip hoists'], ['119', '8450.11', '- - Fully-automatic machines'], ['120', '8450.12', '- - Other machines, with built-in centrifugal drier'], ['121', '8450.19', '- - Other'], ['122', '8450.20', '- Machines, each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 10 kg :'], ['123', '8450.90', '- Parts :'], [None, '8450.901', '- - - Of machine each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg'], [None, '8450.902', '- - - Of machine, each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 10 kg'], ['124', '8501.10', '- Motors of an output not exceeding 37.5 W'], ['125', '8501.20', '- Universal AD/DC motors of an output exceeding 37.5 W'], ['126', '8501.31', '- - Of an output not exceeding 750 W'], ['127', '8501.51', '- - Of an output not exceeding 750 W'], ['128', '8501.52', '- - Of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding 75 kW'], ['129', '8504.10', '- Ballasts for discharge lamps or tubes'], ['130', '8504.21', '- - Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 650 kVA'], ['131', '8504.22', '- - Having a power handling capacity exceeding 650 kVA but not exceeding 10,000 kVA'], ['132', '8504.23', '- - Having a power handling capacity exceeding 10,000 kVA'], ['133', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 1 kVA'], ['134', '8504.32', '- - Having a power handling capacity exceeding 1 kVA but not exceeding 16 kVA'], ['135', '8504.33', '- - Having a power handling capacity exceeding 16 kVA but not exceeding 500 kVA'], ['136', '8504.34', '- - Having a power handling capacity exceeding 500 kVA'], ['137', '8504.40', '- Static converters'], ['138', '8506.10', '- Manganese dioxide'], ['139', '8507.10', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines'], ['140', '8507.20', '- Other lead-acid accumulators'], ['141', '8507.30', '- Nickel-cadmium'], ['142', '8507.40', '- Nickel-iron'], ['143', '8507.80', '- Other accumulators'], ['144', '8507.90', '- Parts'], ['145', '8509.40', '- Food grinders and mixers; fruit or vegetable juice extractors'], ['146', '8513.10', '- Lamps'], ['147', '8513.90', '- Parts'], ['148', '8516.10', '- Electirc instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters'], ['149', '8516.40', '- Electiric smoothing irons'], ['150', '8516.50', '- Microwave ovens'], ['151', '8516.60', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings, grillers and roasters'], ['152', '8516.79', '- - Other'], ['153', '8518.29', '- - Other'], ['154', '8518.40', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers'], ['155', '8527.12', '- - Pocket-size radio cassette-players'], ['156', '8527.13', '- - Other apparatus combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['157', '8527.21', '- - Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['158', '8527.31', '- - Combined with sound recording or reproducing apparatus'], ['159', '8529.10', '- Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts suitable for use therewith :'], [None, '8529.102', '- - - For use with radio-broadcast receivers or television receivers'], ['160', '8529.90', '- Other :'], ['', '8529.902', '- - - For use with radio-broadcast receivers or television receivers'], ['161', '8536.10', '- Fuses'], ['162', '8538.10', '- Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets and other bases for the goods of heading 85.37,\nnot equipped with their apparatus'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['163', '8544.11', '- - Of copper'], ['164', '8544.19', '- - Other'], ['165', '8544.20', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors'], ['166', '8544.30', '- Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets of a kind used in vehicles, aircraft or ships'], ['167', '8544.51', '- - Fitted with connectors'], ['168', '8544.60', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage exceeding 1,000 V'], ['169', '9032.10', '- Thermostats'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '8711.10', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50\ncc'], ['2', '8711.20', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc\nbut not exceeding 250 cc'], ['3', '8711.30', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc\nbut not exceeding 500 cc'], ['4', '8711.40', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 500 cc\nbut not exceeding 800 cc'], ['5', '8711.50', '- With reciprocating internal combustion piston engine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 800 cc'], ['6', '8711.90', '- Other'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0206.30', '- Of swine, fresh or chilled'], ['2', '0206.41', '- - Livers'], ['3', '0206.49', '- - Other'], ['4', '0504.00', 'Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than fish), whole and pieces thereof, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked.'], ['5', '1602.20', '- Of liver of any animal'], ['6', '7210.30', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc'], ['7', '8544.59', '- - Other'], ['8', '8701.20', '- Road tractors for semi-trailers'], ['9', '8702.10', '- With compression-ignition internal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) :'], [None, '8702.101', '- - - Having thirty seats or more'], [None, '8702.109', '- - - Other :'], ['10', '8702.90', '- Other :'], [None, '8702.901', '- - - Having thirty seats or more'], [None, '8702.909', '- - - Other :'], ['11', '8703.24', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc :'], [None, '8703.242', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, '8703.249', '- - - Other'], ['12', '8703.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc :'], [None, '8703.332', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, None, '- - - Of A Cylinder Capacity Exceeding 3,000 cc'], [None, '8703.339', '- - - Other'], [None, '', '- - - Of A Cylinder Capacity Exceeding 3,000 cc'], ['13', '8704.21', '- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes :'], [None, '8704.211', '- - - Van and pick up trucks and similar vehicles'], [None, '8704.219', '- - - Other'], ['14', '8704.22', '- - g.v.w.exceeding 5 tonnes but not exceeding 20 tonnes'], ['15', '8704.23', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 20 tonnes'], ['16', '8704.31', '- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 tonnes :'], [None, '8704.311', '- - - Van and pick up trucks and similar vehicles'], ['17', '8706.00', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.'], ['18', '8707.10', '- For the vehicles of heading 87.03'], ['19', '8707.90', '- Other'], ['20', '8708.31', '- - Mounted brake linings'], ['21', '8708.39', '- - Other'], ['22', '8708.60', '- Non-driving axles and parts thereof'], ['23', '8708.80', '- Suspension shock-absorbers'], ['24', '8708.93', '- - Clutches and parts thereof'], ['25', '8708.94', '- - Steering wheels, steering columns and steering boxes'], ['26', '8708.99', '- - Other'], ['27', '8714.11', '- - Saddles'], ['28', '8714.19', '- - Other'], ['29', '8716.10', '- Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan type, for housing or camping'], ['30', '8716.20', '- Self-loading or self-unloading trailers and semi-trailers for agricultural purposes'], ['31', '8716.31', '- - Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers'], ['32', '8716.39', '- - Other'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '7009.10', '- Rear-view mirrors for vehicles'], ['2', '7009.91', '- - Unframed'], ['3', '7306.40', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of stainless steel'], ['4', '7306.60', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section'], ['5', '7320.20', '- Helical springs'], ['6', '8703.90', '- Other'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0401.10', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1%'], ['2', '0401.20', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1% but not exceeding 6%'], ['3', '0401.30', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6%'], ['4', '0402.10', '- In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1.5%'], ['5', '0701.10', '- Seed'], ['6', '0701.90', '- Other'], ['7', '0703.10', '- Onions and shallots'], [None, None, '- Onions'], ['8', '0703.20', '- Garlic'], ['9', '0712.20', '- Onions'], ['10', '0712.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables'], [None, None, '- Garlic'], ['11', '0801.11', '- - Desiccated'], ['12', '0801.19', '- - Other'], ['13', '0813.40', '- Other fruit'], [None, None, '- Longans'], ['14', '0901.11', '- - Not decaffeinated'], ['15', '0901.12', '- - Decaffeinated'], ['16', '0901.21', '- - Not decaffeinated'], ['17', '0901.22', '- - Decaffeinated'], ['18', '0901.90', '- Other'], [None, None, '- Coffee Husks and Skins'], [None, None, '- coffee substitutes containing coffee'], ['19', '0902.10', '- Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packings of a content not exceeding 3 kg'], ['20', '0902.20', '- Other green tea (not fermented)'], ['21', '0902.30', '- Black tea (fermented) and partly fermented tea, in immediate packings of a content not\nexceeding 3 kg'], ['22', '0902.40', '- Other black tea (fermented) and other partly fermented tea'], ['23', '0904.11', '- - Neither crushed nor ground'], ['24', '0904.12', '- - Crushed or ground'], ['25', '1005.90', '- Other'], [None, None, '- Maize for feedstuff'], ['26', '1006.10', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)'], ['27', '1006.20', '- Husked (brown) rice'], ['28', '1006.30', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not polished or glazed'], ['29', '1006.40', '- Broken rice'], ['30', '1201.00', 'Soya beans, whether or not broken.'], [None, '1201.001', '- - - Edible'], [None, '1201.009', '- - - Other'], ['31', '1203.00', 'Copra.'], ['32', '1209.91', '- - Vegetable seeds'], [None, None, '- - Onion seeds'], ['33', '1507.10', '- Crude oil, whether or not degummed'], ['34', '1507.90', '- Other'], ['35', '1511.10', '- Crude oil'], ['36', '1511.90', '- Other'], ['37', '1513.11', '- - Crude oil'], ['38', '1513.19', '- - Other'], ['39', '1513.21', '- - Crude oil'], ['40', '1513.29', '- - Other'], ['41', '1701.11', '- - Cane sugar'], ['42', '1701.12', '- - Beet sugar'], ['43', '1701.91', '- - Containing added flavouring or colouring matter'], ['44', '1701.99', '- - Other'], ['45', '2101.11', '- - Extracts, essences and concentrates'], ['46', '2101.12', '- - Preparations with a basis of extracts, essences or concentrates or with a basis of coffee'], ['47', '2202.90', '- Other'], [None, None, '- Beverages containing milk'], ['48', '2304.00', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not ground or in the form of pellets, resulting from\nthe extraction of soyabean oil.'], ['49', '5002.00', 'Raw silk (not thrown).'], ['NO.', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION'], ['1', '0302.64', '- - Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber japonicus)'], ['2', '0302.69', '- - Other'], ['3', '0303.74', '- - Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber japonicus)'], ['4', '0303.79', '- - Other'], ['5', '0304.10', '- Fresh or chilled'], ['6', '0304.20', '- Frozen fillets'], ['7', '0304.90', '- Other'], ['8', '0305.59', '- - Other :'], [None, '0305.599', '- - - Other'], ['9', '2401.10', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped'], ['10', '2401.20', '- Tobacco, partly or wholly stemmed/stripped'], ['11', '2401.30', '- Tobacco refuse'], ['12', '8407.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['13', '8407.34', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['14', '8408.20', '- Engines of a kind used for the propulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87'], ['15', '8409.91', '- - Suitable for use solely or principally with spark-ignition internal combustion piston engines'], ['16', '8409.99', '- - Other'], ['17', '8528.12', '- - Colour'], ['18', '8537.10', '- For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V'], ['19', '8537.20', '- For a voltage exceeding 1,000 V'], ['20', '8544.49', '- - Other'], ['21', '8703.21', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc'], ['22', '8703.22', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc :'], [None, '8703.222', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, '8703.229', '- - - Other'], ['23', '8703.23', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc :'], [None, '8703.232', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, '8703.239', '- - - Other'], ['24', '8703.31', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc :'], [None, '8703.312', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, '8703.319', '- - - Other'], ['25', '8703.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc :'], [None, '8703.322', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, '8703.329', '- - - Other'], ['26', '8703.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc :'], [None, '8703.332', '- - - Cars of jeep type with either flexible or hard top including station-wagon type, and similar\nvehicles'], [None, None, '- - - Of A Cylinder Capacity not Exceeding 3,000 cc'], [None, '8703.339', '- - - Other'], [None, None, '- - - Of A Cylinder Capacity not Exceeding 3,000 cc']]
   AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES UNDER THE  FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE  ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE  GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA  AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE  ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS     The Governments of the Republic of Korea, and Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Framework Agreement) signed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on the 13 day of December 2005;  FURTHER RECALLING Articles 1.3 and 2.2 of the Framework Agreement, which reflect their commitment to establish the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area covering trade in services;  NOTING the objectives of the Framework Agreement to enhance economic cooperation and deepen economic integration among them through progressive liberalisation of trade in services consistent with Article V of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS);  REAFFIRMING their commitment to liberalise trade in services among the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries with substantial sectoral coverage, taking into account the sensitive sectors of the Parties, and with special and differential treatment to ASEAN Member Countries and additional flexibility for the new ASEAN Member Countries of the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam;   STRIVING TO enhance cooperation in services among them in order to improve efficiency and competitiveness, as well as to diversify the supply and distribution of services of the respective service suppliers of the Parties; and  RECOGNISING the right of the Parties to regulate, and to introduce new regulations, on the supply of services  within their respective territories in order to meet national                                                  
policy objectives and, given asymmetries existing with respect to the degree of development of services regulations within the Parties, the particular need of the  Parties to exercise this right,  HAVE AGREED as follows:   CHAPTER I DEFINITIONS AND SCOPE   Article 1 Definitions  For the purposes of this Agreement:  (a) AEM means the Economic Ministers of the ASEAN Member Countries;  (b) aircraft repair and maintenance services means such activities when undertaken on an aircraft or a part thereof while it is withdrawn from service and do not include so-called line maintenance;  (c) ASEAN means the Association of Southeast Asian Nations comprising Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam;  (d) Korea-ASEAN FTA means the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area established by the Framework Agreement and other relevant agreements stipulated in paragraph 1 of Article 1.4 of the Framework Agreement;  (e) ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam collectively;  (f) ASEAN Member Country means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam individually;  (g) commercial presence means any type of business  or  professional establishment, including through:  
(i) the constitution, acquisition or maintenance of a juridical person; or  (ii) the creation or maintenance of a branch or a representative office,       within the territory of a Party for the purpose of supplying a service;  (h) computer reservation system (CRS) services means services provided by computerised systems that contain information about air carriers’ schedules, availability, fares and fare rules, through which reservations can be made or tickets may be issued;  (i) direct taxes comprise all taxes on total income, on total capital or on elements of income or of capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation of  property,  taxes  on  estates,  inheritances  and  gifts,  and  taxes  on  the  total amounts of wages or salaries paid  by enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation;  (j) Framework Agreement means the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Republic of Korea and the Governments of the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations;  (k) GATS means the General Agreement on Trade  in Services, contained in Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement;  (l) Implementing Committee means the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement;  (m) juridical person means any legal entity duly  constituted  or  otherwise organised under applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned,  including any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or association;  (n) juridical person of another Party means a juridical person which is either:  (i)  constituted or otherwise organised under the law of that other Party, and is engaged in substantive business operations in the territory of that Party or any other Party; or  (ii) in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, owned or controlled by:  1. natural persons of that Party; or2. juridical persons of that other Party identified under 
subparagraph (i);  (o) a juridical person is:  (i) owned by persons of a Party if more than 50 per cent of the equity interest in it is beneficially owned by persons of that Party;  (ii) controlled by persons of a Party if such  persons have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its actions;  (iii) affiliated with another person  when it controls, or is controlled by, that other person; or when it and the other person are both controlled by the same person;  (p) Korea means the Republic of Korea;  (q) measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or any other form;  (r) measures by Parties means measures taken by:    (i) central, regional or local governments and authorities; and  (ii) non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities;  (s) measures by Parties affecting trade in services include measures in respect of:  (i) the purchase, payment or use of a service;   (ii) the access to and use of, in connection with the supply of a service, services which are required by the Parties to be offered to the public generally;    (iii) the presence, including commercial presence, of persons of a Party for the supply of a service in the territory of  another Party;  (t) monopoly supplier of a service means any person, public or private, which in the relevant market of the  territory of a Party is authorised or established formally or in effect by that Party as the sole supplier of  that service; (u) natural person of another Party means a natural person who resides in the territory of  that other Party or elsewhere and who under the law of 
 (i) is a national of that other Party; or  (ii) has the right of permanent residence in that other Party, in the case of a Party which accords substantially the same treatment to its permanent residents as it does to its nationals in respect of measures affecting trade in services, as notified in its acceptance of or accession to this Agreement provided that no Party is obligated to accord to such permanent residents treatment more favourable than would be accorded by that other Party to such permanent residents. Such notification shall include the assurance to assume, with respect to the permanent residents, in accordance with its laws and regulations, the same responsibilities that other Party bears with respect to its nationals;  (v) new ASEAN Member Countries means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam;   (w) Parties means Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries collectively;  (x) Party means Korea or an ASEAN Member Country;  (y) person means either a natural person or a juridical person;   (z) sector of a service means,  (i) with reference to a specific commitment, one or more, or all, subsectors of that service, as specified in a Party’s Schedule,  (ii) otherwise, the whole of that service sector, including all of its subsectors;  (aa) selling and marketing of air transport services means opportunities for the air carrier concerned to sell and market freely its air transport services including all aspects of marketing such as market research, advertising and distribution.  These activities do not include the pricing of air transport services nor the applicable conditions;  (bb) services includes any service in any sector except services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority;  (cc) a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority means any service which is supplied neither on a commercial basis nor in competition with one or more service suppliers;                                                   
(dd) service consumer means any person that receives or uses a service;  (ee) service of another Party means a service which is supplied:  (i) from or in the territory of  that other  Party, or in the case of maritime transport, by a vessel registered under the laws of  that other Party, or by a person of  that other Party which supplies the service through the operation of a vessel and/or its use in whole or in part; or  (ii)  in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence or through the presence of natural persons, by a service supplier of  that other Party;  (ff) service supplier means any person that supplies  a service;  (gg) supply of a service includes the production, distribution, marketing, sale and delivery of a service;   (hh) trade in services is defined as the supply of a service:  (i) from the territory of a Party into the territory of  any other Party;  (ii) in the territory of a Party to the service consumer of  any other Party;  (iii) by a service supplier of a Party, through commercial presence in the territory of any other Party;   (iv) by a service supplier of a Party, through presence of natural persons of a Party in the territory of  any other Party;   (ii) traffic rights means the right for scheduled and non-scheduled services to operate and/or to carry passengers, cargo and mail for remuneration or hire from, to, within, or over the territory of a Party, including points to be served, routes to be operated, types of traffic to be carried, capacity to be provided, tariffs to be charged and their conditions, and criteria for designation of airlines, including such criteria as number, ownership, and control;  (jj) WTO means the World Trade Organisation; and                                                   
(kk) WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation, done at Marrakesh on the 15th day of April 1994 and the other agreements negotiated thereunder.   Article 2 Scope  1. This Agreement applies to measures by the Parties affecting trade in services.  2. This Agreement shall not apply to:  (a) a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority within the territory of each respective Party;   (b) measures affecting air traffic rights, however granted; or to measures affecting services directly related to the exercise of air traffic rights, other than measures affecting:  (i) aircraft repair and maintenance services;  (ii) the selling and marketing of air transport services; and  (iii) computer reservation system services;  (c) cabotage in maritime transport services; and  (d) measures affecting natural persons seeking access to the employment market of a Party and measures regarding citizenship, residence or employment on a permanent basis.  3. Article 19, Article 20 and Article 23 of this Agreement shall not apply to laws, regulations or requirements governing the procurement by governmental agencies of services purchased for governmental purposes and not with a view to commercial resale or with a view to use in the supply of services for commercial sale.  4. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from applying measures to regulate the entry of natural persons of the other Parties into, or their temporary stay in, its territory, including those measures necessary to protect the integrity of, and to ensure the orderly movement of natural persons across its borders, provided that such measures are not applied in such a manner as to nullify or impair the benefits accruing to the other Parties under the terms of a specific commitment.                                                      
CHAPTER II OBLIGATIONS AND DISCIPLINES   Article 3  Regional and Local Government   In fulfilling its obligations and commitments under this Agreement, each Party shall ensure their observance by regional and local governments and authorities in its territory as well as their observance by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities within its territory.   Article 4  Transparency  1. Each Party shall publish promptly and, except in emergency situations, at the latest by the time of their entry into force, all relevant measures of general application which pertain to or affect the operation of this Agreement.  International agreements pertaining to or affecting trade in services to which a Party is a signatory shall also be published.  2. Where publication as referred to in paragraph 1 is not practicable, such information shall be made otherwise publicly available.  3. Each Party shall promptly and at least annually inform the Implementing Committee of the introduction of any new, or any changes to existing, laws, regulations or administrative guidelines which significantly affect trade in services covered by its specific commitments under this Agreement.  4. Each Party shall respond promptly to all requests by any other Party for specific information on any of its measures of general application or international agreements within the meaning of paragraph 1.  Each Party shall also establish one or more enquiry points to provide specific information to other Parties, upon request, on all such matters as well as those subject to the notification requirement in paragraph 3.  Such enquiry points shall be established within two years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  Appropriate flexibility with respect to the time-limit within which such enquiry points are to be established may be agreed upon for individual developing country Parties.  Enquiry points need not be depositories of laws and regulations.  5. Any Party may notify to the Implementing Committee any measure, taken by any other Party, which it considers affects the operation of this Agreement.   Article 5 Disclosure of Confidential Information   
Nothing in this Agreement shall require any Party to provide confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement, or otherwise be contrary to the public interest, or which would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular enterprises, public or private.   Article 6  Domestic Regulation    1. In sectors where specific commitments are undertaken, each Party shall ensure that all measures of general application affecting trade in services are administered in a reasonable, objective and impartial manner.  2. (a) Each Party shall maintain or institute as soon as practicable judicial, arbitral or administrative tribunals or procedures which provide, at the request of an affected service supplier, for the prompt review of, and where justified, appropriate remedies for, administrative decisions affecting trade in services.  Where such procedures are not independent of the agency entrusted with the administrative decision concerned, the Party shall ensure that the procedures in fact provide for an objective and impartial review.   (b) The provisions of subparagraph (a) shall not be construed to require a Party to institute such tribunals or procedures where this would be inconsistent with its constitutional structure or the nature of its legal system.  3. Where authorisation is required for the supply of a service on which a specific commitment has been made, the competent authorities of a Party shall, within a reasonable period of time after the submission of an application considered complete under domestic laws and regulations, inform the applicant of the decision concerning the application.  At the request of the applicant, the competent authorities of the Party shall provide, without undue delay, information concerning the status of the application.  4. With a view to ensuring that measures relating to qualification requirements and procedures, technical standards and licencing requirements do not constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in services, the Implementing Committee shall, through appropriate bodies it may establish, develop any necessary disciplines.  Such disciplines shall aim to ensure that such requirements are, inter alia:  (a) based on objective and transparent criteria, such as competence and the ability to  supply the service;  (b) not more burdensome than necessary to ensure the quality of the service;  (c) in the case of licencing procedures, not in themselves a restriction on the supply of the service. 
 5. (a) In sectors in which a Party has undertaken specific commitments, pending the entry into force of disciplines developed in these sectors pursuant to paragraph 4, the  Party shall not apply licencing and qualification requirements and technical standards that nullify or impair such specific commitments in a manner which:  (i) does not comply with the criteria outlined in subparagraphs 4(a), (b) or (c);  and  (ii) could not reasonably have been expected of that Party at the time the specific commitments in those sectors were made.   (b) In determining whether a Party is in conformity with the obligation under paragraph 5(a), account shall be taken of international standards of relevant international organisations applied by that Party.  6. In sectors where specific commitments regarding professional services are undertaken, each Party shall provide for adequate procedures to verify the competence of professionals of any other Party.   Article 7 Recognition  1. For the purposes of fulfillment of their respective standards or criteria for the authorisation, licencing or certification of services suppliers, each Party may recognise the education or experience obtained, requirements met, or licences or certifications granted in another Party.  Such recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or arrangement between the Parties or the relevant competent bodies or may be accorded autonomously.  2. A Party that is a party to an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1, whether existing or future, shall afford adequate opportunity for other interested Parties to negotiate their accession to such an agreement  or arrangement or to negotiate comparable ones with it. Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to demonstrate that education, experience, licences, or certifications obtained or requirements met in that other Party’s territory should be recognised.   3. A Party shall not accord recognition in a manner which would constitute a means of discrimination between countries in the application of its standards or criteria                                                  
for the authorisation, licencing or certification of services suppliers, or a disguised restriction on trade in services.  4. Each Party shall endeavour:  (a) within 12 months from the date on which this Agreement takes effect for it, to inform the Implementing Committee of its existing recognition measures and state whether such measures are based on agreements or arrangements of the type referred to in paragraph 1;    (b) to promptly inform the Implementing Committee as far in advance as possible of the opening of negotiations on an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1 in order to provide adequate opportunity to any other Party to indicate their interest in participating in the negotiations before they enter a substantive phase;   (c) to promptly inform the Implementing Committee when it adopts new recognition measures or significantly modifies existing ones and state whether the measures are based on an agreement or arrangement of the type referred to in paragraph 1.  5. Wherever appropriate, recognition should be based on multilaterally agreed criteria.  In appropriate cases, Parties shall work in cooperation with relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations towards the establishment and adoption of common international standards and criteria for recognition and common international standards for the practice of relevant services trades and professions.    Article 8 Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers  1. Each Party shall ensure that any monopoly supplier of a service in its territory does not, in the supply of the monopoly service in the relevant market, act in a manner inconsistent with that Party’s obligations under Article 19  and Article 20.   2. Where a Party’s monopoly supplier competes, either directly or through an affiliated company, in the supply of a service outside the scope of its monopoly rights and which is subject to that Party's specific commitments, the Party shall ensure that such a supplier does not abuse its monopoly position to act in its territory in a manner inconsistent with such commitments.  3. If any Party has a reason to believe that a monopoly supplier of a service of any other Party is acting in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 1 or 2, that Party may request the Party establishing, maintaining or authorising such supplier to provide specific information concerning the relevant operations.  
4. The provisions of this Article shall also apply to cases of exclusive service suppliers, where a Party, formally or in effect,    (a) authorises or establishes a small number of service suppliers; and   (b) substantially prevents competition among those suppliers in its territory.  5. If, after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, a Party grants monopoly rights regarding the supply of a service covered by its specific commitments, that Party shall notify the Implementing Committee no later than three months before the intended implementation of the grant of monopoly rights and the provisions of paragraphs 1(b) (other than the three-year restriction),  2, 3, 4, and 5  of Article 25 shall apply.    Article 9 Business Practices  1. Parties recognise that certain business practices of service suppliers, other than those falling under Article 8, may restrain competition and thereby restrict trade in services.   2. Each Party shall, at the request of any other Party (the “Requesting Party”), enter into consultations with a view to eliminating practices referred to in paragraph 1.  The Party addressed (the “Requested Party”), shall accord full and sympathetic consideration to such a request and shall cooperate through the supply of publicly available non-confidential information of relevance to the matter in question.  The Requested Party shall also provide other information available to the Requesting Party, subject to its domestic law and to the conclusion of satisfactory agreement concerning the safeguarding of its confidentiality by the Requesting Party.   Article 10 Safeguards 1. The Parties note the multilateral negotiations pursuant to Article X of the GATS on the question of emergency safeguard measures based on the principles of non-discrimination.  Upon the conclusion of such multilateral negotiations, the Parties shall conduct a review for the purpose of discussing appropriate amendments to this Agreement so as to incorporate the results of the multilateral negotiations.  2. In the event that the implementation of this Agreement causes substantial adverse impact to a service sector of a Party before the conclusion of the multilateral negotiations referred to in paragraph 1, the affected Party may request for consultations with the other Party for the purposes of discussing any measure with respect to the affected service sector.  Any measure taken pursuant to this paragraph shall be mutually agreed by the Parties concerned. The Parties concerned shall take into account the circumstances of the particular case and give sympathetic consideration to the Party 
  Article 11 Payments and Transfers  1. Except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 12, a Party shall not apply restrictions on international transfers and payments for current transactions relating to its specific commitments.  2. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of any Party who is a member of the International Monetary Fund under the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles of Agreement, provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments regarding such transactions, except under Article 12 or at the request of the Fund.   Article 12 Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments  1. Where a Party is in serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or threat thereof, it may adopt or maintain restrictions on trade in services in accordance with Article XII of the GATS.  2. Any restrictions adopted or maintained under paragraph 1, or any changes therein, shall be promptly notified to the Implementing Committee.   Article 13 General Exceptions  Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between Parties where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on trade in services, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any Party of measures:   (a) necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order;  (b) necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;  (c) necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement including those relating to:                                                   
(i) the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices or to deal with the effects of a default on services contracts;  (ii) the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to the processing and dissemination of personal data and the protection of confidentiality of individual records and accounts;  (iii) safety;  (d) inconsistent with Article 20, provided that the difference in treatment is aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective imposition or collection of direct taxes in respect of services or service suppliers of other Parties;  (e) with difference in treatment  provided that it is the result of an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation or provisions on the avoidance of double taxation in any other international agreement or arrangement by which the Party is bound.   Article 14 Security Exceptions  1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  (a) to require any Party to furnish any information the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its essential security interests; or  (b) to prevent any Party from taking any action which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests, including but not limited to:  (i) action relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the materials from which they are derived;                                                   
(ii)  action relating to the supply of services as carried out directly or indirectly for the purpose of provisioning a military establishment;  (iii) action taken so as to protect critical public infrastructures including communications, power and water infrastructures from deliberate attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructures;   (iv) action taken in time of war or other emergency in domestic or international relations; or  (c) to prevent any Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security.  2. The Implementing Committee shall be informed to the fullest extent possible of measures taken under paragraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their termination.   Article 15 Subsidies   1. Except where provided in this Article, this Agreement shall not apply to subsidies or grants provided by a Party, or to any conditions attached to the receipt or continued receipt of such subsidies or grants, whether or not such subsidies or grants are offered exclusively to domestic services, service consumers or service suppliers.  If such subsidies or grants significantly affect trade in services committed under this Agreement, any Party may request for consultations with a view to an amicable resolution of this matter.   2. Pursuant to this Agreement, the Parties shall:   (a) on request, provide information on subsidies related to trade in services committed under this Agreement to any requesting Party; and  (b) review the treatment of subsidies when relevant disciplines are developed by the WTO.    Article 16 WTO Disciplines  Subject to any future agreements as may be agreed pursuant to reviews of this Agreement by the Parties under Article 26, the Parties hereby agree and reaffirm their commitments to abide by the provisions of the WTO Agreement as are relevant and 
  Article 17 Cooperation  The Parties shall strengthen cooperation efforts in services sectors, including sectors mutually agreed upon by the Parties.   Article 18 Increasing Participation of new ASEAN Member Countries  The increasing participation of new ASEAN Member Countries on trade in services shall be facilitated through negotiated specific commitments, relating to:  (a) the strengthening of their domestic services capacity and its efficiency and competitiveness, inter alia through access to technology on a commercial basis;  (b) the improvement of their access to distribution channels and information networks;   (c) the liberalisation of market access in sectors and modes of supply of export interest to them; and   (d) flexibility for new ASEAN Member Countries for opening fewer sectors, liberalising fewer types of transactions and progressively extending market access in line with their respective development situation.   CHAPTER III SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS   Article 19 Market Access  1. With respect to market access through the modes of supply identified in Article 1(hh), a Party shall accord services and service suppliers of any other Party treatment no less favourable than that provided for under the terms, limitations and conditions agreed and specified in its Schedule.                                                   
2. In sectors where market-access commitments are undertaken, the measures which a Party shall not maintain or adopt either on the basis of a regional subdivision or on the basis of its entire territory, unless otherwise specified in its Schedule, are defined as:  (a) limitations on the number of service suppliers whether in the form of numerical quotas, monopolies, exclusive service suppliers or the requirements of an economic needs test;  (b) limitations on the total value of service transactions or assets in the form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  (c) limitations on the total number of service operations or on the total quantity of service output expressed in terms of designated numerical units in the form of quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  (d) limitations on the total number of natural persons that may be employed in a particular service sector or that a service supplier may employ and who are necessary for, and directly related to, the supply of a specific service in the form of numerical quotas or the requirement of an economic needs test;  (e) measures which restrict or require specific types of legal entity or joint venture through which a service supplier may supply a service;  and  (f) limitations on the participation of foreign capital in terms of maximum percentage limit on foreign shareholding or the total value of individual or aggregate foreign investment.   Article 20 National Treatment  1. In the sectors inscribed in its Schedule, and subject to any conditions and qualifications set out therein, each Party shall accord to services and service suppliers of any other Party, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of services, treatment no less favourable than that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers.  2. A Party may meet the requirement of paragraph 1 by according to services and service suppliers of any other Party, either formally identical treatment or formally different treatment to that it accords to its own like services and service suppliers.                                                   
3. Formally identical or formally different treatment shall be considered to be less favourable if it modifies the conditions of competition in favour of services or service suppliers of the Party compared to like services or service suppliers of any other Party.   Article 21 Additional Commitments  The Parties may negotiate commitments with respect to measures affecting trade in services not subject to scheduling under Article 19 or Article 20, including those regarding qualifications, standards or licencing matters.  Such commitments shall be inscribed in a Party’s Schedule.   Article 22 Schedules of Specific Commitments  1. Each Party shall set out in a schedule the specific commitments it undertakes under Article 19, Article 20 and Article 21.  With respect to sectors where such commitments are undertaken, each Schedule shall specify:  (a) terms, limitations and conditions on market access;  (b) conditions and qualifications on national treatment;  (c) undertakings relating to additional commitments;   (d) where appropriate the time-frame for implementation of such commitments; and  (e) the date of entry into force of such commitments.  2. Measures inconsistent with Article 19 shall be inscribed in the column relating to Article 19, and measures inconsistent with Article 20 shall be inscribed in the column relating to Article 20.  3. The Schedules shall be annexed to this Agreement and shall form an integral part thereof.   Article 23 Application and Extension of Commitments  1. Korea shall make a single schedule of specific commitments under Article 22 and shall apply this Schedule to all ASEAN Member Countries.  
2. Each ASEAN Member Country shall make its individual schedule of specific commitments under Article 22 and shall apply this Schedule to Korea and the rest of the ASEAN Member Countries.   Article 24 Progressive Liberalisation  The Parties shall, at the reviews pursuant to Article 26, enter into successive rounds of negotiations to negotiate further packages of specific commitments under this Agreement so as to progressively liberalise trade in services between the Parties.   Article 25 Modification of Schedules   1. A Party may modify or withdraw any commitment in its Schedule, at any time after three years  have elapsed from the date on which that commitment has entered into force, provided that:  (a) it notifies the Parties as well as  the Implementing Committee of its intention to modify or withdraw a commitment no later than three months before the intended date of implementation of the modification or withdrawal; and  (b) it enters into negotiations with any affected Party to agree to the necessary compensatory adjustment.  2. In achieving a compensatory adjustment, Parties shall ensure that the general level of mutually advantageous commitment is not less favourable to trade than provided for in the Schedules prior to such negotiations.  3. Any compensatory adjustment pursuant to this Article shall be accorded on a non-discriminatory basis to all Parties. 4. If the Parties concerned are unable to reach an agreement on the compensatory adjustment, the matter shall be resolved by arbitration. The modifying Party may not modify or withdraw its commitment until it has made compensatory adjustments in conformity with the findings of the arbitration.   5. If the modifying Party implements its proposed modification or withdrawal and does not comply with the findings of the arbitration, any Party that participated in the arbitration may modify or withdraw substantially equivalent benefits in conformity with those findings. Notwithstanding Article 23, such a modification or withdrawal may be implemented solely with respect to the modifying Party.                                                    
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS   Article 26 Review  The Minister for Trade of Korea and the AEM or their designated representatives shall meet within a year of the date of entry into force of this Agreement and then biennially or otherwise as appropriate to review this Agreement for the purpose of considering further measures to liberalise trade in services as well as develop disciplines and negotiate agreements on matters referred to in Article 16 or any other relevant matters as may be agreed.     Article 27  Miscellaneous Provisions  1. This Agreement shall include the Annexes and the contents therein which shall form an integral part of this Agreement; and all future legal instruments agreed pursuant to this Agreement.  2. The Annex on Financial Services shall form an integral part of this Agreement.  3. The GATS Annex on Telecommunications shall be incorporated into this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.  4. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement or any action taken under it shall not affect or nullify the rights and obligations of a Party under the existing agreements to which it is a party.  5. ASEAN Member Countries may enter into individual bilateral arrangements with Korea concerning co-production of broadcasting programs pursuant to this Agreement, and such bilateral arrangements shall apply to the said Parties only.   Article 28 Amendments  This Agreement may be amended by agreement in writing by the Parties, and such amendments shall enter into force on such date or dates as may be agreed by the Parties.   Article 29 Dispute Settlement  
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement.   Article 30 Denial of Benefits   A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement:  (a) to the supply of a service, if it establishes that the service is supplied from or in the territory of a non-Party;  (b)  in the case of the supply of a maritime transport service, if it establishes that the service is supplied:  (i) by a vessel registered under the laws of a non-Party, and  (ii) by a person of a non-Party which operates and/or uses the vessel in whole or in part;   (c) to a service supplier that is a juridical person, if it establishes that it is not a service supplier of another Party.    Article 31 Entry into Force  1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which Korea and at least one ASEAN Member Country have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  2. A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, notify all the other Parties in writing.  3. Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall come into force for that Party 30 days after the date on which the Party has notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures. The Party concerned, however, shall be bound by the same terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any further commitments that may have been undertaken by the other Parties under this Agreement by the time of such notification, as if it had notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures before the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  
 Article 32 Depositary  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member Country.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned being duly authorised thereto, have signed the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE in Singapore, this 21 day of November 2007, in duplicate copies in the English language.    For the Government of the Republic of Korea:      KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade             For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:                                                      
 LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade   For the Royal Government of Cambodia:      CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce   For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:      MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade   For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:      NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce   For the Government of Malaysia:      RAFIDAH AZIZ Minister of International Trade and Industry For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:     
 U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development   For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:      PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry   For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:      LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry   For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:      VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade  
   ANNEX ON FINANCIAL SERVICES    1. Scope and Definition  (a) This Annex applies to measures affecting the supply of financial services.  Reference to the supply of a financial service in this Annex shall mean the supply of a service as defined in Article 1(hh) of this Agreement.    (b) For the purposes of Article 1(bb) of this Agreement, "services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority" means the following:  (i) activities conducted by a central bank or monetary authority or by any other public entity in pursuit of monetary or exchange rate policies;  (ii) activities forming part of a statutory system of social security or public retirement plans;  and  (iii) other activities conducted by a public entity for the account or with the guarantee or using the financial resources of the Government.  (c) For the purposes of Article 1(bb) of this Agreement, if a Party allows any of the activities referred to in subparagraphs (b)(ii) or (b)(iii) of this paragraph to be conducted by its financial service suppliers in competition with a public entity or a financial service supplier, "services" shall include such activities.  (d) Article 1(cc) of this Agreement shall not apply to services covered by this Annex.  2. Prudential Measures, Exchange Rate and Financial Stability  (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a Party shall not be prevented from taking measures for prudential reasons, including for the protection of investors, depositors, policy holders or persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier; to ensure the integrity and stability of the financial system; or to ensure the stability of the exchange rate, including to prevent speculative capital flows, subject to the following:                                                 
(i) where such measures do not conform with the provisions of this Agreement, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations under this Agreement;  (ii) for measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate including to prevent speculative capital flows, such measures shall be no more than necessary, and phased out within one year or when conditions no longer justify their institution or maintenance; and  (iii) for measures to ensure the stability of the exchange rate including to prevent speculative capital flows, such measures shall be applied on a Most-Favoured-Nation basis.  (b) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require a Party to disclose information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual customers or any confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities.  3. Recognition  (a) A Party may recognise prudential measures of any other country in determining how the Party's measures relating to financial services shall be applied.  Such recognition, which may be achieved through harmonisation or otherwise, may be based upon an agreement or arrangement with the country concerned or may be accorded autonomously.  (b) A Party that is a party to such an agreement or arrangement referred to in subparagraph (a), whether future or existing, shall afford adequate opportunity for other interested Parties to negotiate their accession to such agreements or arrangements, or to negotiate comparable ones with it, under circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, oversight, implementation of such regulation, and, if appropriate, procedures concerning the sharing of information between the parties to the agreement or arrangement.  Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for any other Party to demonstrate that such circumstances exist.  (c)  Where a Party is contemplating according recognition to prudential measures of any other country, paragraph 4(b) of Article 7 shall not apply.  4. Dispute Settlement  Panels for disputes on prudential issues and other financial matters shall have the necessary expertise relevant to the specific financial service under dispute.   
5. Definitions  For the purposes of this Annex:  (a) A financial service is any service of a financial nature offered by a financial service supplier of a Party.  Financial services include all insurance and insurance-related services, and all banking and other financial services (excluding insurance).  Financial services include the following activities:  Insurance and insurance-related services  (i) Direct insurance (including co-insurance):  (A) life  (B) non-life  (ii) Reinsurance and retrocession;  (iii) Insurance intermediation, such as brokerage and agency;  (iv) Services auxiliary to insurance, such as consultancy, actuarial, risk assessment and claim settlement services.  Banking and other financial services (excluding insurance)  (v) Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public;  (vi) Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring and financing of commercial transaction;  (vii) Financial leasing;  (viii) All payment and money transmission services, including credit, charge and debit cards, travellers cheques and bankers drafts;  (ix) Guarantees and commitments;  (x) Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the following:  (A) money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of deposits);  (B) foreign exchange; 
(C) derivative products including, but not limited to, futures and options;  (D) exchange rate and interest rate instruments, including products such as swaps, forward rate agreements;  (E) transferable securities;  (F) other negotiable instruments and financial assets, including bullion.  (xi) Participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting and placement as agent (whether publicly or privately) and provision of services related to such issues;  (xii) Money broking;  (xiii) Asset management, such as cash or portfolio management, all forms of collective investment management, pension fund management, custodial, depository and trust services;  (xiv) Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including securities, derivative products, and other negotiable instruments;  (xv) Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing and related software by suppliers of other financial services;  (xvi) Advisory, intermediation and other auxiliary financial services on all the activities listed in subparagraphs (v) through (xv), including credit reference and analysis, investment and portfolio research and advice, advice on acquisitions and on corporate restructuring and strategy.  (b) A financial service supplier means any natural or juridical person of a Party wishing to supply or supplying financial services but the term "financial service supplier" does not include a public entity.  (c) Public entity means:  (i) a government, a central bank or a monetary authority, of a Party, or an entity owned or controlled by a Party, that is principally engaged in carrying out governmental functions or activities for governmental purposes, not including an entity principally engaged in supplying financial services on commercial terms;  or  
(ii)  a private entity, performing functions normally performed by a central bank or monetary authority, when exercising those functions.   
   LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING AMONG THE  PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN  SERVICES UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT  ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION  AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC  OF KOREA AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE  ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS     The Parties to the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (hereinafter referred to as the “Agreement”) have reached the following understanding:  (a) for Article 1 (Definitions) –   The Republic of Korea and ASEAN Member Countries understand that for Article 1(o)(i), the phrase “beneficially owned” shall not be construed so as to require:  (i) the Philippines to allow for ownership of a juridical person inconsistent with the 1987 Philippine Constitution (the Constitution of the Republic of the Philippines); Commonwealth Act No. 108 as amended or the Anti-Dummy Law,  (an Act to Punish Acts of Evasion of the Laws on the Nationalization of Certain Rights, Franchises or Privileges);  Batas Pambansa Bilang 68 as amended, (the Corporation Code of the Philippines); Republic Act No. 386 (an Act to Ordain and Institute the Civil Code of the Philippines); and Republic Act No. 8179 (an Act to Further Liberalize Foreign Investments, Amending for the Purpose Republic Act No. 7042, and for Other Purposes);  (ii) Viet Nam to allow for ownership of a juridical person inconsistent with the Civil Code No. 33/2005/QH11 dated 14 June 2005;  Law on Enterprises  No. 60/2005/QH11 dated 29 November 2005; Law on Investment No. 59/2005/QH11 dated 29 November 2005; and Law on Securities No. 70/2006/QH11 dated  29 June 2006 of Viet Nam;  (b) for Article 13 (General Exceptions) –  The Republic of Korea and ASEAN Member Countries understand that the issue relating to taxation measures under paragraph (d) of Article 13 and footnote 7 is still subject to further negotiations; and                                                    
(c) for Paragraph 2 (Prudential Measures, Exchange Rate and Financial Stability) of the Annex on Financial Services –  The Republic of Korea and ASEAN Member Countries understand that, for this Agreement, notwithstanding the placement of  paragraph 2 on Prudential Measures, Exchange Rate and Financial Stability in the Annex on Financial Services, the Parties shall not be limited to imposing the measures as provided in paragraph 2 of the Annex on Financial Services only to the financial services sector.   This Letter of Understanding takes effect on the same date as the Agreement on Trade in Services and shall form an integral part of the Agreement.  DONE in Singapore, this 21 of November 2007, in duplicate copies in the English language.   For the Government of the Republic of Korea:      KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade   For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:      LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade   For the Royal Government of Cambodia:      CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce       
For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:      MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade   For the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic:      NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce   For the Government of Malaysia:      RAFIDAH AZIZ Minister of International Trade and Industry   For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:      U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:      PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry     
For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:      LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry   For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:      VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade            
  KOREA- ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         KOREA  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                  
  KOREA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['* : An asterisk on the CPC(UN provisional Central Product Classification : Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social\nAffairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991) Code number indicates that the corresponding service sub-sector in this schedule only covers\na part or parts of the service sub-sector classified under the given CPC code number.\nUnbound* means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '3) The acquisition of outstanding stocks of\nexisting domestic companies in such areas as\nenergy and aviation by natural person or\njuridical persons of another Member may be\nrestricted. The foreign investment in newly\nprivatized companies may be restricted.', '3) The acquisition of land is unbound\nexcept:\n(i) that the acquisition of land by\ncompanies which are not deemed as\nforeign under the Alien Land Law is\npermitted, and\n(ii) that the acquisition of land by\ncompanies which are deemed as\nforeign under the Alien Land Law\nand branches of foreign company is\npermitted, subject to approval or\nnotification in accordance with the\nAlien Land Law, for the following\nlegitimate business purposes:\n• land used for supplying services\nduring the course of normal business\nactivities;\n• land used for housing senior\ncompany personnel under pertinent\nlaws; and\n• land used for fulfilling land-holding\nrequirements stipulated by pertinent', '3) Residents who have\nbeen treated as\nforeigners in the\nSecurities Exchange\nAct are accorded\nnational treatment in\nportfolio investment\nin Korean stocks.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 2 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'laws.\nEligibility for subsidies, including tax\nbenefits, may be limited to companies\nwhich are established in Korea according\nto the pertinent laws.\nUnbound for research and development\nsubsidies.', ''], ['', '4) Unbound except for measures affecting\nthe entry and temporary stay of natural\npersons as defined below:\nA. Intra-corporate Transferees(ICT)\nNatural persons who are employees of\nfirms that supply services through\nsubsidiaries, branches, or designated\naffiliates established in Korea and who\nhave been in the employ of their firm for\na period of not less than one year\nimmediately preceding the date of their\napplication for admission and who are\none of the following:\n(i) Executives - persons within an\norganization who primarily direct the\nmanagement of the organization,\nexercise wide latitude in decision-\nmaking, and receive only general\nsupervision or direction from higher-\nlevel executives, the board of\ndirectors, or shareholders of the\nbusiness. Executives would not\ndirectly perform tasks related to the\nactual supply of a service or', '4) Unbound except for measures concerning\nIntra-corporate Transferees (ICT),\nBusiness Visitors (BV), Service\nSalespersons (SS).\nUnbound for Contractual Service\nSuppliers (CSS)\nThe acquisition of land is unbound except\nthat the lease hold right of land is\npermitted\nEligibility for subsidies, including tax\nbenefits, may be limited to residents\naccording to the pertinent laws.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 3 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'services of the organization\n(ii) Senior Managers - persons within an\norganization who primarily direct the\norganization or a department of the\norganization; supervise and control the\nwork of other supervisory, professional\nor managerial employees; have the\nauthority to hire and fire or\nrecommend hiring, firing or other\npersonnel actions; and exercise\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. Senior managers do not\ninclude first-line supervisors, unless\nthe employees supervised are\nprofessionals, nor do they include\nemployees who primarily perform\ntasks necessary for the supply of\nthe service.', '', ''], ['', '(iii) Specialists-persons within an\norganization who possess knowledge\nat an advanced level of continued\nexpertise and proprietary knowledge\non the services, research equipment,\ntechniques, or management of the\norganization.\nEntry and stay of natural persons as\ndefined in A is limited to a period not\nexceeding three years that may be\nextended if the above condition is still\nmet by the applicants.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 4 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['The following definition is provided for transparency purposes:\ni) Subsidiary is defined as a firm, corporation or other legal entity of which a parent owns more than 50 per cent of the total equity of the entity.\nii) Branch is defined as an operating division or a representative office of the same organization, which has an employee holding an extensive right to represent a\nparent housed in the territory of any other WTO Member.\niii) The designated affiliate is defined as one of two subsidiaries, both of which are owned or controlled by the same parent, or as one of two legal entities, both of\nwhich are owned or controlled by the same group of shareholders who are partners of a partnership, a company or other legal entity and who have more than 50\nper cent of the total equity of each of the two entities or have a responsibility for more than 50 per cent of the total investment amount of each of the two\nentities.', None, None, None], ['', 'B. Business Visitors(BV)\nNatural persons meeting the criteria of\ncategory A(i) or A(ii) and who are\nresponsible for the setting up, in Korea, of a\ncommercial presence of a service supplier of\na Member when the service supplier has no\nrepresentative office, branch or subsidiary in\nKorea and the persons are not engaged in\nmaking direct sales or supplying services.\nC. Service Salespersons(SS)\nNatural persons not based in the territory of\nKorea and receiving no remuneration from a\nsource located within Korea, who are\nengaged in activities or representing a\nservice supplier for the purpose of\nnegotiating for the sale of the services of that\nsupplier when such sales are not directly\nmade to the general public and the persons\nare not engaged in supplying the services.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 5 - Entry and stay of natural persons as defined in B and C is limited to a period of 90 days.    
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'D. Contractual Service Suppliers (CSS) -\nEmployees of juridical person\nNatural persons who are engaged in the\nsupply of a contracted service as employees\nof a juridical person that has no commercial\npresence in Korea, subject to the following\nconditions and any of the additional\nconditions mentioned in the sector specific\npart.1\nThe juridical person has to obtain a service\ncontract for a period not exceeding one year\nfrom a juridical person incorporated in\nKorea, who is the final consumer of the\nservice which is supplied. The contract\nshall comply with the laws and regulations\nof Korea.\nThe natural persons seeking access should\nbe employees of the juridical person, who\nare supplying the service for a period not\nless than one year immediately preceding\nthe date of their application for admission.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 6 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'The natural persons must possess the\nnecessary academic and professional\nqualifications and professionally qualified\ncompetency-based experience to exercise\nan activity in the sector concerned pursuant\nto the laws, regulations or requirements of\nKorea and to accreditations by the relevant\ninternational organizations such as\nWashington Accord, EMF International\nRegistered Professional Engineer and\nAPEC Engineers.\nThe natural persons are required to receive\nno remuneration from a juridical person\nlocated in Korea.\nCommitments may be subject to the\napplication of a numerical ceiling\n[modalities of application and level to be\ndetermined], except where otherwise\nindicated for a specific sub-sector.\nThe contract is required to be obtained in the\nfollowing service-supplying activities or sub-\nsectors, without conferring entitlement to\nexercise the professional title of Korea.\n- Services related to the installment,\nmanagement or repair of industrial\nequipment or machine, excluding\nconstruction and power generation\nequipment, for a juridical person in Korea\nwhich purchases the equipment or the\nmachine from a juridical person employing\nthe natural person located in any other', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 7 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'WTO Member\n- Consultancy services related to the\ntechnical knowledge or skill concerning\nthe natural science applied to information\ntechnology, e-business, biotechnology,\nnanotechnology, digital electronics, and\nenvironmental industry', '', ''], ['', '- Consultancy services for foreign\naccounting standards and auditing, training\nof CPAs, transfer of auditing technology\nand exchange of information related to\naccounting, auditing and bookkeeping\nservices, to a Korean accounting firm or\noffice through a membership contract\n- Architectural services subject to\ncollaboration with architects registered\nunder the Korean law in the form of joint\ncontracts\n- Management consulting services\nProfessional Engineers in the following\nservices:\n- Consultancy services related to the\ninstallation of computer hardware\n- Software R&D based implementation\nservices\n- Data management services\n- Data system services\n- Specialty engineering design services for\nautomobile', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 8 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Entry and stay of the natural persons as defined\nin D is limited to the duration of the contract,\nwhich is not exceeding one year.', '', ''], ["Notes for transparency purposes:\n1. Natural persons whose entries and temporary stays are permitted shall observe the Immigration Law and the labour laws.\n2. Korea's commitments regarding temporary movement of natural persons do not apply in the case of labour-management disputes.", None, None, None], ['II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services\na. Legal services;\n(CPC 861*)\nAdvisory Services on law of the\njurisdiction where service supplier\nis qualified as a lawyer and on\npublic international law, excluding\nthe following :\n(i) representation for\njuridical or statutory\nprocedures in courts and\nother government\nagencies as well as\npreparation of legal\ndocuments for such\nprocedures ;\n(ii) legal representation for\nthe entrustment of the\npreparation of notarial', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only in the form of representative office.\nAssociation with or employment of local\nlawyers with Korean qualification or\nequivalent is not permitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\nCommercial presence is required.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign legal consultants are required to\nstay in Korea not less than 180 days per\nyear.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '(i) Representation in\ninternational commercial\narbitration is permitted,\nprovided that the\napplicable procedural and\nsubstantive laws in the\narbitration are the laws\nwhich the foreign legal\nconsultant is qualified to\npractice in Korea.\n(ii) Use of firm name is\npermitted, provided that it\nis used with reference to\n"Foreign legal consultants\noffice" in Korean']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 9 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['deeds ;', '', '', ''], ['(iii) those activities\nconcerning a legal case\nwhose objective is the\nacquisition or loss or\nchange of rights\nconcerning real\nproperty in Korea,\nintellectual property\nrights, mining rights or\nother rights arising\nupon registration\nthereof with\ngovernment agencies\nin Korea ; and\n(iv) legal cases concerning\nfamily relations or\ninheritance, in which a\nKorean national is\ninvolved as a party or\nthe property concerned\nis located in Korea.', '', '', '(iii) Notwithstanding\nlimitation on Market\nAccess to this sector, no\nlater than 2 years after\nthe date of entry into\nforce of this Agreement,\nKorea will allow a\nrepresentative office,\nsubject to certain\nrequirements consistent\nwith this Agreement, to\nconclude a specific\ncooperative agreement\nwith a Korean law firm\nin order to be able to\njointly deal with a case\nin which domestic and\nforeign legal issues are\nmixed and to share\nprofits derived from the\ncase.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 10 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['* Notes\nThe following information is provided for transparency purposes only :\ni) A foreign lawyer who wishes to practice law as a foreign legal consultant in Korea must be approved by the Minister of Justice, must have practiced law for\nat least 3 years in the jurisdiction where he/she is qualified as a lawyer, and must be in good standing of the legal profession in the jurisdiction.\nii) Permission of the Minister of Justice is required for the establishment of a representative office in Korea. The representative office consists of a FLC or\nFLCs approved by the Minister of Justice. It must have credibility and expertise, and sufficient capability to compensate for damages caused to the client, if\nany. The chief of the representative office must have practiced law for at least 7 years, including 3 years in the jurisdiction of his/her qualification.\niii) A representative office can conduct profit-making activities provided that such presence in Korea maintains proper business plans and financial bases, and\nmust observe the Foreign Legal Consultant Act and its presidential decree.\niv) For the purpose of the commitment to this sector, only the law firm which is organized under each ASEAN member countries’ relevant law and\nheadquartered in each ASEAN member countries can establish its representative office in Korea. Any type of subordinate or dependent legal entity,\nincluding but not limited to a branch, a local office, a subsidiary or a joint-venture firm of the law firm of a country that is not a member of ASEAN shall not\nbe permitted to establish its representative office in Korea.', None, None, None], ['b. Accounting, auditing and\nbook-keeping services\n(CPC 862)', '1) Unbound for auditing.\n2) Unbound for auditing services.\n3) Only sole proprietorships, auditing task\nforces, and accounting corporations\n(limited liability companies) by CPAs\nlicensed under the Certified Public\nAccountant Law are permitted.\nOnly CPAs in auditing task forces and\naccounting corporations (limited liability\ncompanies) are allowed to supply auditing\nservices.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '1)2)3) A Korean\naccounting firm or\noffice may, by\npaying an annual\nmembership fee,\nacquire membership\nto international\naccounting\norganizations which\nhave world-wide\nbusiness networks.\nThe following\nservices may be\nsupplied to a Korean\naccounting firm or\noffice through a']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 11 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'membership\ncontract:\n- Consultancy for\nforeign accounting\nstandards and\nauditing, training of\nCPAs, transfer of\nauditing technology\nand exchange of\ninformation.'], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\nIn order to practice as a CPA, a candidate\nmust have field experience of two years\nin Korea after passing the CPA\nexamination.', "4) Temporary movement\nof natural persons who\nare qualified as CPAs\nunder their home\ncountry's laws and are\nemployed by\ninternational\naccounting firms for\nthe purpose of\nsupplying the services\nmentioned above is\nallowed. Entry and\nstay of these persons is\nlimited to a one-year\nperiod that may be\nextended if extension\nis deemed to be\nnecessary."], [None, '1) Unbound for tax reconciliation services and\ntax representative services.\n2) Unbound for tax reconciliation services and\ntax representative services.\n3) Only sole proprietorships, tax', None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 12 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'reconciliation task forces, tax agency\ncorporations (limited liability companies)\nby CTAs licensed under the Certified Tax\nAccountant Law are permitted.\nOnly CTAs in tax reconciliation task\nforces, tax agency corporations (limited\nliability companies) are allowed to supply\ntax reconciliation services.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\nIn order to practice as a CTA, a candidate\nmust have field experience of six months\nin Korea after passing the CTA\nexamination.', ''], ['d. Architectural services\n(CPC 8671)', '1) Commercial presence is required, except\nfor circumstances where services are\nsupplied by foreign architects through\njoint contracts with architects licensed\nunder Korean law.\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', "1)2)4)Supply of services\nby foreign architects\nthrough joint contracts\nwith architects\nlicensed under Korean\nlaw is allowed.\nForeign architects\nlicensed under their\nhome country's law\nmay acquire a Korean\narchitect license by\npassing a simplified\nexamination which\ncovers only two of the\nregular test's six\nsubjects: architectural\nlaws and regulations"]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 13 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'and architectural\ndesign'], ['e. Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['f. Integrated engineering\nservices\n(CPC 8673)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['g. Urban planning and\nlandscape\narchitectural services\n(CPC 8674)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['i. Veterinary services\n(CPC 932)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices', '', '', ''], ['a. Consultancy services related\nto the installation of computer\nhardware\n(CPC 841)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 14 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', ''], ['b. Software implementation\nservices\n(CPC 842)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['c. Data processing services\n(CPC 843)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['d. Data base services\n(CPC 844)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['e. Other (CPC 845, 849)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['C. Research and Development\nServices', '', '', ''], ['a. Research and development\nservices on natural sciences\n(CPC 851)\nExcluding marine scientific\nResearch', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 15 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b. Research and development\nservices on social sciences\nand humanities (CPC 852)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['c. Interdisciplinary research and\ndevelopment services\n(CPC 853)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['D. Real Estate Services\nBrokerage services\n(CPC 82203*, 82204*, 82205*,\n82206*)', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['Appraisal services\n(CPC 82201*, 82202*)\nExcluding appraisal services\nrelated to services supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental\nauthority such as assessment of\nland prices and compensation\nfor expropriation', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 16 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['a. Relating to ships\n(CPC 83103)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['b. Relating to aircraft\n(CPC 83104)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Joint venture in which foreign equity\nparticipation is less than 50% is permitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Representatives of joint venture\ncompanies must be Korean nationals.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['c. Relating to other transport\nequipment\n(CPC 83101, 83105*)2', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['d.Relating to other machinery\nand equipment\n(CPC 83106 - 83109)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['e. Other\nLeasing or rental services\nconcerning personal or\nhousehold goods', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 17 -                                                       
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 832)', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['Other Business Services', '', '', ''], ['a. Advertising services\n(CPC 871)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['b. Market research and public\nopinion polling services\n(CPC 864)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['c. Management consulting\nservices\n(CPC 865)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['d. Project management\nservices and other\nmanagement services\n(CPC 86601, 86609)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 18 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['e. Composition and purity\ntesting and analysis\nservices\n(CPC 86761*)3', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Establishment of a commercial presence is\nsubject to the economic needs test.\nMain Criteria: The number of and impact\non existing domestic suppliers, protection\nof public health, safety, and\nenvironment.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['e. Testing and analysis\nservices of physical\nproperties\n(CPC 86762)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['e. Technical inspection\nservices\n(CPC 86764)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['e. Testing and analysis services\nof integrated mechanical and\nelectrical systems\n(CPC 86763**, 86769**)4', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['f. Consulting services related\nto agriculture and animal\nhusbandry', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 19 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 8811*, 8812*)', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['f. Poultry differentiation\nservice\n(CPC 8811**, 8812**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['f. Services incidental to\nforestry excluding aerial\nfire fighting\nand disinfection\n(CPC 8814*)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['g. Consulting services related\nto fishing\n(CPC 882*)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['h. Services incidental\nto mining\n(CPC 883)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['i. Services incidental to\nmanufacturing:\nOnly consulting services related\nto manufacturing technologies\nof new products (CPC 884* and\n885* excluding 88411, 88450,\n88442, and 88493)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 20 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', ''], ['k. Placement services of\npersonnel\n(CPC 87201, 87202)\nExcluding placement services\nfor seafarers under the Seamen\nAct', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign service suppliers may supply\nservices only in the form of a corporation\nunder the Commercial Act\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['Notes for transparency purposes:\n1. The corporations shall follow the rules for service fees determined and announced by the Ministry of Labour.\n2. The corporations shall be established with a paid-in capital of 50 million won or more. If suppliers wish to install additional branch offices, the total paid-in\ncapital shall increase by 20 million won for each branch office additionally installed.', None, None, None], ['m. Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting\nservices\nGeological, geophysical and\nother scientific prospecting\nservices\n(CPC 86751)\nSubsurface surveying\nservices\n(CPC 86752)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['Surface surveying services\n(CPC 86753*)\nExcluding services related to\ncadastral survey', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 21 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Map-making services\n(CPC 86754*)\nExcluding services related to\ncadastral maps', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['n. Maintenance and repair of\nequipment\n(CPC 633, 8861, 8862,\n8863, 8864, 8865, 8866)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['o. Building-cleaning services\n(CPC 874**, excluding\n87409)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['p. Photographic services\n(CPC 875)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['q. Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['r. Printing\n(CPC 88442*)5', '1) None\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 22 -                                                       
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['r. Publishing\n(CPC 88442*)\nExcluding publishing services\nof newspapers and periodicals', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['s. Convention agency\nservices\n(CPC 87909*)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['s. Stenography services\n(CPC 87909*)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['t. Translation and\ninterpretation services\n(CPC 87905)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['t. Specialty design services\n(CPC 87907)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 23 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES\nB. Courier Services\nInternational courier services\n(CPC 75121**)\nExcluding the services currently\nreserved to the Korean Postal\nAuthority by law.6\nThe commitment shall not be\nconstrued to include the right to\noperate transport services under\none’s own responsibility for\nhire.\nThe commitment shall not\ninclude under any\ncircumstances, the grant of air\ntraffic rights for courier\noperators with own Air\nOperator’s Certificate (AOC)\nand aircraft fleet.', '1) Provision of services is limited to air and\nsea transport modes.\n2) None\n3) Limited to land based operations in\nsupport of international courier services\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Provision of services is limited to air and\nsea transport modes.\n2) None\n3) Limited to land based operations in\nsupport of international courier services\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['C. Telecommunication\nServices', '1) The provision of all services is subject to', '1) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 24 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['a. Voice telephone services\nb. Packet-switched data\ntransmission services\nc. Circuit-switched data\ntransmission services\nd. Telex services\ne. Telegraph services\nf. Facsimile services\ng. Private leased circuit services\no. Other\nDigital cellular services\nPaging services\nPCS (personal\ncommunications services)\nTRS (trunked radio system)\nservices\nMobile data services\nIAS(Internet access services)\nVoIP(Voice over Internet\nprotocol) services connected\nto the PSTN(public switched\ntelephone network)', 'commercial arrangements with licensed\nKorean service suppliers.\n2) None\n3) A license for facilities-based public\ntelecommunications services or a\nregistration for non-facilities based public\ntelecommunications services shall be\ngranted only to a juridical person organized\nunder Korean law.\nA foreign government or its representative,\nor a foreign person may not obtain or hold\na radio station license.\nA license for facilities based public\ntelecommunications services shall not be\ngranted to or held by a juridical person\norganized under Korea law in which a\nforeign government, foreign person, or a\ndeemed foreign person* holds in the\naggregate more than 49 percent of its total\nvoting shares.\nA foreign government, foreign person, or\ndeemed foreign person* may not in the\naggregate hold more than 49 percent of the\ntotal voting shares of a facilities-based\nsupplier of public telecommunications\nservices.', '2) None\n3) None', 'As contained in the\nattachment'], ['', 'A foreign government, foreign person, or\nforeign juridical person, or deemed foreign\nperson* may not be the largest shareholder\nof KT, except if it holds less than 5 percent', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 25 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "of its total voting shares.\n* deemed foreign person means a juridical\nperson in which a foreign government or\nforeign person is the largest shareholder and\nholds 15 percent or more of that juridical\nperson's total voting shares.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.", '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 26 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Value-added Services7:\nh. Electronic mail\ni. Voice mail\nj. On-line information and data\nbase retrieval\nk. Electronic data interchange\nl. Enhanced/value-added\nfacsimile services including\nstore and forward, store and\nretrieve\nm. Code and protocol conversion\nn. On-line information and/or\ndata processing (including\ntransaction processing)\no. Other\nOn-line data base and remote\ncomputing services8', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', 'Value-added service\nproviders are allowed to\nsupply data transmission\nservices9.'], ['D. Audiovisual Services', '', '', ''], ['a. Motion picture and video\ntape production and\ndistribution services\n(CPC 96112*, 96113*)\nExcluding those services\nfor cable TV broadcasting', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 27 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['e. Record production and\ndistribution services\n(Sound recording)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['3. CONSTRUCTION\nSERVICES\n(CPC 511-518)', '1) Unbound* except for CPC 5111\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound* except for CPC 5111\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES10', '', '', ''], ["A. Commission Agents'\nServices\n(CPC 621, excluding\n62111, 62112 and\ncommission agents'\nservices of future contracts)", '1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals and medical\ngoods.\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['B. Wholesale Trade Services\n(CPC 622, excluding grain\nin 62211, 62223, ginseng,\nred ginseng and\nfarinaceous products in\n62229 and fertilizers in\n62276)', '1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals, medical\ngoods, functional foods, and items subject\nto limitations under Mode 3.\n2) None\n3) Following services are subject to the\neconomic needs test:\n- wholesale trade of used cars\n- wholesale trade of gaseous fuels and\nrelated products\nMain criteria: Formation of reasonable\nprices, the number of and impact on', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 28 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'existing suppliers for balance of demand\nand supply, healthy development of the\nindustry, and establishment of orderly\ntrade. In addition, population density,\ntraffic, environmental pollution, local\nconditions, and other local characteristics\nas well as public interests.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['C. Retailing Services\n(CPC 6111, 61130, 61210,\n613*(excluding retail trade\nand gas station business\nrelated to LPG),\n631*(excluding tobacco, rice,\nginseng and red ginseng), 632', '1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals, medical\ngoods, functional foods, and items subject\nto limitations under Mode 3.\n2) None\n3) Retailing services for used cars and\ngaseous fuels are subject to the\neconomic needs test.\nMain criteria: The number of and impact\non existing domestic suppliers, the\npopulation density, traffic, environmental\npollution, local conditions, and other local\ncharacteristics as well as public interests.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['D. Franchising\n(CPC 8929*)11', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 29 -                                                        
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['※ Notes\nThe following explanation pertains to Retailing Services.\nSupply of pharmaceuticals directly to the general public (Pharmacies) should be only allowed by certified pharmacists in order to protect public health.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 30 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['5. EDUCATIONAL\nSERVICES12\nC. Higher Education\nServices\n(CPC 923**)\nHigher education services\nprovided by private higher\neducational institutions,\nwhich obtained recognition\nfrom the government or\npublic accreditation bodies,\nfor the purpose of conferring\ndegrees.\nExcluding education services\nfor medical and health related\nsubjects and for training pre-\nschool, primary and\nsecondary school teachers and\nprofessional graduate\neducation in law', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) - Only those school juridical persons*,\nestablished under the approval by the\nMinister of Education and Human\nResources Development may establish\neducational institutions under the\nMinister’s authorization (Intra-company\nUniversities do not need to establish a\nschool juridical person).\n- Only the types of educational\ninstitutions listed in Attachment 1 are\nallowed.\n- New educational institutions other than\nTechnology Universities and Intra-\ncompany Universities are not allowed\nin the Metropolitan area of Seoul or in\nits vicinities.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound', ''], ['', '- Operation of joint educational programs\nwith junior colleges, universities and', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 31 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'industrial universities is limited to\nforeign universities, which obtained\naccreditation by foreign public\naccreditation bodies or which acquired\nrecognition or recommendation by\ntheir governments, in fields that the\npresident of the university (junior\ncollege) recognizes as necessary.\n-The Minister of Education and Human\nResources Development may restrict the\nnumber of students for each educational\ninstitution.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['* School juridical persons are non-profit juridical persons established solely for the purposes of establishing regular educational institutions in accordance with\npertinent education related laws.', None, None, None], ['Attachment 1\n1. Only the following types of educational institutions are included: (Excluding Universities via Broadcasting and Communications; Cyber Universities; and etc.)\na) Junior Colleges (Excluding Polytechnic Colleges) : higher education institutions which train technical experts for a 2-3 year curriculum and confer an\nassociate degree, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.\nb) Universities: higher education institutions which conduct research and educate professionals for 4-6 years and confer a bachelor’s degree, in accordance with\nthe Higher Education Law.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 32 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['c) Industry Universities: higher education institutions which educate those who want to continue theoretical or technical research and training for 4 years,\nconferring a bachelor’s degree, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.\nd) Technology Universities: higher education institutions, located within workplaces, which educate workers to provide expert knowledge and skills and confer\nassociate degrees and bachelor’s degrees, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.\ne) Intra-company Universities: higher education institutions which are established and operated by employers, and educate employees, in order to confer\nequivalent degrees or diplomas to those in Junior Colleges or Universities, in accordance with the Life-long Education Law.', None, None, None], ['D. Adult Education Services\n(CPC 924**)\nAdult education services\nprovided by private adult\neducational institutions.\nExcluding education services\nwhich confer or lead to local or\nforeign degree or diploma,\nvocational training services\nfinancially supported by the\ngovernment in accordance with\nthe Employment Insurance Act\nand the Vocational Training\nPromotion Act and Seafarers\nAct, and educational services\nvia broadcasting\nAlso excluded are vocational\ntraining services provided by\ninstitutions under authority\ndelegated by the government.', '1) Unbound for health and medical related\nadult education services.\n2) None\n3) - Only the types of educational\ninstitutions listed in Attachment 2 are\nallowed.\nIn the Seoul Metropolitan Area, any\nnew establishment, extension, or\ntransfer of an adult training facility that\nequals or exceeds 3,000 square meters\nin total floor area may be restricted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound for health and medical related\nadult education services.\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 33 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Attachment 2\n1. The following types of private tutoring institutions (Hag-won) and life-long education facilities are included :\na) Hag-won are private education institutions to provide tutoring services on the following subjects to more than 10 persons for periods longer than 30 days in\naccordance with the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Tutoring institutions. Excluded are schools, libraries, museums, workplace facilities to\nprovide education services to the employees, life-long education facilities in accordance with the Life-long Education Law, and driving schools.\n1) Infrastructure industrial technology: machinery, automobile, metal, chemical and ceramic, electrics, telecommunications, electronics, shipbuilding,\naviation, civil engineering, textile and apparel, mining resources, land development, agriculture and forestry, oceanic, energy, art craft, transportation, safety\nmanagement\n2) Applied industrial technology: design, hair and cosmetic management, food and beverage, packaging, printing, photograph, musical tuning\n3) Information processing: telecommunications equipment, software, multimedia, computer communication, internet, computer\n4) Nursing assistant: nursing assistant\n5) Culture and tourism: publishing, imaging and record, movie, broadcasting, advertising, character products, tourism\n6) Foreign languages: foreign languages, translation, interpretation\n7) Humanities: public management, business management, accounting, statistics, public service examination\n8) Management: finance, insurance, distribution, real estate\n9) Office work: bookkeeping, fast writing, reading and calculation, word-processing, secretary, abacus, calligraphy\n10) Arts: traditional Korean music, dance and calligraphy, music, painting, dance, speech, modeling, cartoon, baduk, theater, flower arrangement\nb) Life-long education facilities are those facilities which have been approved, registered or notified in accordance with the Life-long Education Law. Among\nthe Life-long education facilities, only life-long educational facilities annexed to workplaces, NGOs, schools, mass-media, and those related to the development\nof knowledge and human resources are included.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 34 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL\nSERVICES', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 35 -A. Sewage Services      Refuse water disposal   services  (CPC 9401*)   1) Unbound 2) None 3) None 4)  Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.   1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  B. Refuse Disposal Services     Industrial refuse disposal   services  (CPC 9402*)   1) Unbound 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  D. Other     Cleaning services of exhaust gases and noise abatement services  (CPC 9404, 9405)  1) None 2) None 3) None 4)   Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section. 1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  Environment testing and   assessment services  (CPC 9406*, 9409*)  1) None 2) None 3) None 4)  Unbound except as indicated in the 1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the                                                        
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Soil Remediation and\nGroundwater Purification\n(CPC 9404*)\nEnvironment consulting\nservices (CPC 9409*)', 'Horizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', 'Horizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ["Explanation on Financial Services\n1. Financial sectors are basically re-classified according to the category of the Annex on Financial Services. Therefore the order of sub-sectors is different from that\nof the commitment in GATS/SC/48/Suppl.3/Rev.1.\n2. Specific statements in the sub-sectors apply only to existing domestic financial services.\n7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\nAll financial services are subject to the following provisions.\n(1) For prudential reasons within the context of paragraph 2(a) of the Annex on Financial Services, Korea shall not be prevented from taking measures including\nrequirements related to parent companies, the minimum capital requirement, minimum operating funds requirement, business worker's license and approval for\nbusiness activities.\n(2) A financial institution must be established for only one business defined in related law and thus cannot engage in other business activities regulated by other\nrelevant laws.\n(3) Cross-border supply of financial services and supply through consumer movement may not be settled in Korean currency. After the establishment of a\ncommercial presence, financial institutions may handle only transactions, denominated and settled in Korean currency, with residents. Approval is required for\ntransactions denominated or settled in foreign currency or transactions with non-residents\n(4) Assets owned by branches must be kept within the territory of Korea. Capital of the head office is not recognized as the basis for determining the extent of\nfunding and lending activities of domestic branches.\n(5) Demand deposit interest rates are regulated", None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 36 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(6) The management and operation of assets of a financial institution are restricted\n(7) A financial institution may not own non-business real estate.\n(8) Introduction of new financial products including derivatives is subject to approval.', None, None, None], ['A. Insurance and Insurance-\nrelated Services\n(i) Direct Insurance\na) Life Insurance Services\nIncluding accident and health\ninsurance services\nb) Non-life Insurance\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign life insurance companies.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with\nKorean life insurance companies is not\nallowed.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel,\nare restricted.\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound except for marine export/import\ncargo and aviation insurance.\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign non-life insurance companies.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with\nKorean non- life insurance companies is\nnot allowed.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel,\nare restricted.\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 37 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['(ii) Reinsurance and\nretrocession services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign reinsurance and retrocession\ninsurance companies.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel,\nare restricted.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with\nKorean reinsurance and retrocession\ninsurance companies is not allowed.\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['(iii) Insurance broking and\nagency services\na) Brokerage\nb) Agency', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial Presence is permitted only to\nforeign insurance brokerage companies.\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None, except that top executive personnel\nof each establishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 38 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', 'Horizontal Commitments section.', ''], [None, None, '', None], ['(iv) Services auxiliary to\ninsurance: applicable only to\nsub-sector a) and b)\na) Claim settlement and\nadjustment services16\nb) Actuarial services', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial Presence is permitted only to\nforeign claim settlement and adjustment\ncompanies and actuarial companies.\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['B. Banking and Other Financial\nServices\n:applicable only to the sub-\nsectors listed below\n(i) Deposit17\n(ii) Lending18\n(iii) Financial leasing\n(iv) Payment and Money\ntransmission', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign financial institutions (except for\nfinancial leasing) which deal with the same\nservices in their country of origin.\nA person may own up to 10 per cent of the\nstocks of a bank(up to 4% in case of non-\nfinancial service business entity) and 15\nper cent of the stocks of a provincial bank\nwithout the special authorization of the\nrelevant authorities19.\nA person can own up to 100 per cent of a\nbank and a provincial bank with the special\nauthorization of the relevant authorities.\nForeign exchange position is regulated.\nThe oversold position of spot foreign', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 39 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'exchange is US$ 5 million, or 3 per cent of\ncapital (whichever is greatest)', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 40 -(v)  Guarantees and  commitments  (vi) Foreign exchange services (vii) Settlement and clearing    Deposit for specific purpose, such as housing subscription deposit, may be handled only by designated institutions.    Securities savings and credit granting are subject to restriction of ceiling and operation.  Lending to credit card members through such means as card loans is subject to limitation.  For credit card services, maximum limits are applied to various rates such as fees and interest rates.  The maturity of CDs shall be more than 30 days.  Underlying transaction and documentation requirements apply to foreign exchange transactions. Underlying documentation requirements are exempt in the case of forward transactions  Mandatory lending to small-and-medium sized companies is required.  Foreign currency loans are restricted with respect to ceiling and uses.  Top executive personnel of financial leasing, credit granting and security savings companies must reside in Korea.   4) Unbound except as indicated in the                                4) Unbound except as indicated in the                                                       
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(viii) Trading for own account or\nfor account of customers,\nwhether on an exchange, in\nan over-the-counter market\nor otherwise\n:applicable only to the\ninstruments as listed below\na) Money market instruments\n(including cheques, bills,\ncertificates of deposit)\nb) Foreign exchange\nc) Financial Derivative\nproducts ( including futures\nand options)\nd) Exchange rate and interest\nRate instruments (including\nswaps and forward rate\nagreements)\ne) Transferable securities\nf) Other negotiable\ninstruments and financial\nassets (including bullion)', 'Horizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial Presence is permitted only to\nforeign financial institutions which deal\nwith the same instruments in their country\nof origin.\nRepresentative offices may be established\nby pre-notification\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', 'Horizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 41 -
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(ix) Participation in issues of all\nkinds of securities\na) Security issue\nb) Underwriting\nc) Placement\nd) Other services related to\nsecurities', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign financial institutions which deal\nwith the issuing of all kinds of securities.\nRepresentative offices may be established\nby pre-notification\nTop executive personnel of each\nestablishment must reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
(x) Asset management  :applicable only to  services listed below  a) Cash or portfolio  management  b) All forms of collective  investment management  c) Custody  1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign asset management companies.  Representative offices may be established by   Pre-notification  To handle a trust business, approval (two types) is required from the Ministry of Finance and Economy both for engaging in businesses other than the main banking businesses and for engaging in the trust 1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) None          
[[''], ['']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 42 -establishment must reside in Korea.  4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.   4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.                                                        
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(xi) Credit information\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Unbound except for equity participation of\nless than 50 percent in existing financial\ninformation companies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 43 -(xii) Advisory, intermediation  and other auxiliary financial services  :applicable only to services  listed below   a) Investment advice 1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign investment advisory companies.  Representative offices may be established by pre-notification   Top executive personnel of each  establishment must reside in Korea.   4)   Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) None       4)  Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.    b) Credit rating and analysis 1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) Credit rating companies should be designated  by the relevant authorities to assess the credit  rating of companies which may wish to issue  non-guaranteed corporate bonds and  commercial papers.  4)  Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.   1) Unbound 2) Unbound 3) None       4)  Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.    
  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-border supply               2)  Consumption abroad               3)  Commercial presence        4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL\nRELATED SERVICES\nA. Hotels and Restaurants\n(CPC 641, 642, 6431*)\nExcluding rail and air\ntransport related facilities in\nCPC 643123\nBeverage serving services\nwith entertainment\n(CPC 6432)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 44 -                                                       
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Travel Agencies and Tour\nOperators Services\nTravel agency services and\ntour operator services\n(CPC 7471)\nC. Tourist Guides Services\n(CPC 7472)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['10. RECREATIONAL,\nCULTURAL AND\nSPORTING SERVICES\nA. Entertainment Services\n(CPC 96191, 96192)\nEntertainment services\nprovided by individual artists\nor groups such as musical,\ntheatre, live band, opera, etc.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES\nA. Maritime Transport\nServices24', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 45 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['International transport\n(CPC 7211*, 7212*)\nExcluding cabotage', "1) a) Liner shipping: None\nb) Bulk, tramp, and other international\nshipping: None\n2) None\n3) a) Establishment of a registered company\nfor the purpose of operating a fleet under\nthe national flag of Korea:\ni) International maritime passenger\ntransport: Unbound\nii) International maritime cargo\ntransport:\nOnly Chusik Hoesa(stock\ncompanies) as stipulated under the\nCommercial Act are permitted.\nb) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) a) Ship's crew: Unbound\nb) Shore personnel: Unbound except as\nindicated in the Horizontal Commitments\nsection.", '1) None\n2) None\n3) a) None\nb) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', "The following services at\nthe port are made publicly\navailable to international\nmaritime transport\nsuppliers on reasonable\nand non-discriminatory\nterms and conditions.\n1. Pilotage\n2. Towing and tug assistance\n3. Provisioning, fuelling\nand watering\n4. Garbage collecting and\nballast waste disposal\n5. Port Captain's services\n6. Navigation aids\n7. Shore-based operational\nservices essential to\nship operations,\nincluding\ncommunications, water\nand electrical supplies\n8. Emergency repair\nfacilities\n9. Anchorage, berth and\nberthing services"], ['Notes\nWithout prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include maritime\ncabotage services, which are assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located within the territory of the Republic of Korea, and\ntraffic originating and terminating in the same port or point located within the territory of the Republic of Korea, provided that this traffic remains within the Republic\nof Korea’s territorial waters.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 46 - Maritime Auxiliary   Services     
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Maritime cargo handling\nservices\n(CPC 741*)\nStorage and warehouse\nservices in ports\n(CPC 742*)\nCustoms Clearance service\nMaritime agency services\n(CPC 748*)25\nContainer station services\n(CPC 741*)26', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) All the companies as stipulated under the\nCommercial Act are permitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 47 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Maritime freight\nforwarding services\n(CPC 748*)27\nShipping brokerage\nservices\n(CPC 748*, 749*)28\nMaintenance and repair of\nvessels29', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 48 -Rental of vessels with crew (CPC 7213) 1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.  1)    None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal Commitments section.                                                        
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Pushing and towing services\n(CPC 7214)\nTally, measuring and survey\nservices\n(CPC 745*)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 49 -C. Air Transport Services     
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Computer reservation\nsystem (CRS) services30\nSelling and marketing of\nair transport services31\nMaintenance and repair of\naircraft', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 50 -                                                      
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Rail Transport Services\na. Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7111)\nb. Freight transportation\n(CPC 7112)\nF. Road Transport Services\nTransportation of\ncontainerized freight\nexcluding cabotage\n(CPC 71233*)\nG. Pipeline Transport\n(CPC 7131*)\nOnly the transportation of oil\nproducts, excluding the\ntransportation of LPG\nH. Services Auxiliary to all\nModes of Transport\nb. Storage and warehouse services\nother than those in ports\n(CPC 742*)\nExcluding services for\nagricultural, fishery and\nlivestock products.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Unbound for existing operations.\nEstablishment of new operations are\nsubject to the economic needs test.\nMain criteria: Establishment of order and\ndiscipline in the railroad industry.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Licenses are granted only to international\nshipping companies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Cargoes are confined to containerized\ncargoes to be exported or imported.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 51 -
  Modes of Supply:            1)  Cross-border supply           2)  Consumption abroad           3)  Commercial presence            4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. Other Transport Services\nCOMBINED TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\nFreight forwarding for rail\ntransport32\n12. OTHER SERVICES NOT\nINCLUDED ELSEWHERE\nb. Hairdressing and other\nbeauty services (CPC 9702)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/ROK - 52 -                                                      
    REFERENCE PAPER  Scope  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.    Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.    Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that  (a) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers;   and  (b) cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:   (a) control over essential facilities;  or   (b) use of its position in the market.  1. Competitive safeguards  1.1 Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications  Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  1.2 Safeguards  The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular:   (a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;     (b) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  and  (c) not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.  
     2. Interconnection  2.1 This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and  to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken.  2.2 Interconnection to be ensured  Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided.   (a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services  or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its  subsidiaries or other affiliates;   (b) in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic  feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided;  and   (c) upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.  2.3 Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations  The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available.  2.4 Transparency of interconnection arrangements  It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer.  2.5 Interconnection:  dispute settlement  A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either:   (a) at any time or   (b) after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known  
    to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously.  3. Universal service  Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.     4. Public availability of licensing criteria  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available:   (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence and   (b) the terms and conditions of individual licences.   The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request.  5. Independent regulators  The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.  6. Allocation and use of scarce resources  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.          
    ATTACHMENT CONCERNING MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES  1. International Shipping, 3.b):  "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services" means the ability for international maritime transport service suppliers of other Members to establish branches and to undertake activities concerned for the supply to their customers of maritime transport services.  2. Maritime Cargo Handling Services:  Activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not including the direct activities of dockers, when this workforce is organized independently of the stevedoring or terminal companies.  The activities covered include the organization and supervision of:  - the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a ship; - the lashing/unlashing of cargo; - the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge.  3. Customs Clearance Services:  Activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service supplier or a usual complement of its main activity.  4. Container Station and Depot Services:  Activities consisting in storing containers in port areas with a view to their stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for shipments.  5. Maritime Agency Services:  Activities consisting in representing, within a given geographical area, as an agent, the business interests of one or more shipping lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes:  - Marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies; acquisition and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information;  - Acting on behalf of the companies organizing the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required.  6. Maritime Freight Forwarding Services:  
    Activities consisting of organizing and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of maritime transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information.  7. Tally, Measuring and Survey Services:  - Tally services: Activities consisting of calculating the number of cargoes or verifying the delivery and the receipt when loading and unloading.  - Measuring services: Activities consisting of calculating or verifying the volume or weight of cargoes when loading and unloading.  - Survey services: Activities consisting of the verification, inspection and survey related with shipped cargoes and vessels (including barges).   
 KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         BRUNEI DARUSSALAM  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                 
 BRUNEI DARUSSALAM - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '3) Unbound for measures concerning foreign\nequity or interest in companies established\nor wishing to establish a commercial\npresence\n4) Unbound except for measures concerning the\nentry and temporary presence of intra-\ncorporate transferees at the level of\nmanagers, executives and specialists. Intra-\ncorporate transferees refers to managers,\nexecutives and specialists, as defined below,\nwho are employees of firms that provides\nservices within Brunei Darussalam through a\nbranch, subsidiary, or affiliate established in\nBrunei Darussalam and who have been in the\nprior employ of their firms outside Brunei', '3) Unbound except with respect to\nexisting commercial presence:\n- half of the board members of a\npublic company and half the\ndirectors of a private company\nmust be nationals or residents\nof Brunei Darussalam.\n- all companies incorporated\noutside Brunei Darussalam\nwhich establish or have\nestablished a place of business\nin Brunei Darussalam must have\none or more locally resident\nagents to accept service of\nprocess and any service of\nprocess or any notices required\nto be served on the company.\n4) Unbound except for measures\nconcerning the categories of\nnatural persons referred to in the\nmarket access column.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 2 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Darussalam for a period of not less than one\nyear immediately preceding the date of their\napplication for admission and who are one of\nthe following:', '', ''], ['', '(a) Managers - persons within an organisation\nwho primarily direct the organisation, or a\ndepartment or sub-division of the\norganisation, supervise and control the work\nof other supervisory, professional or\nmanagerial employees, have the authority to\nhire and fire or commend hiring, firing or\nother personnel actions (such as promotion\nor leave authorisation), and exercise\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. Does not include first-line\nsupervisors, unless the employees supervised\nare professionals, nor does it include\nemployees who primarily perform tasks\nnecessary for the provision of the service.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 3 -  (b) Executives - persons within the organisation who primarily direct the management of the organisation, exercise wide latitude in decision-making and receive only general supervision or direction from higher-level executives, the board of directors, or stockholders of the business.      Executives would not directly perform tasks related to the actual provision of the service or services of the organisation.   
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "(c) Specialists - persons within an\norganisation who possess knowledge at an\nadvanced level of expertise and who\npossess proprietary knowledge of the\norganisation's service, research equipment,\ntechniques, or management. (Specialists\nmay include, but are not limited to,\nmembers of licensed professions).", '', ''], ['', 'Entry for these intra-corporate transferees is\nlimited to a three year period that may be\nextended for up to two additional years for\na total term not to exceed five years.', '', ''], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 4 -b) Auditing services  (CPC 862) 1) Foreign-based auditors are allowed to audit local accounts provided they are authorised by the Ministry of Finance. In order to apply to be an authorised auditor, a person must have as minimum qualifications:   A.  For accounts kept in English 1. Associate membership of one of  the following bodies:  
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '(a) The institute of Chartered\nAccountants (of Australia,\nCanada, England and Wales,\nIreland, New Zealand and\nScotland).\n(b) The Association of Certified\nAccountants.\n(c) The Australian Society of\nAccountants\n(d) The New Zealand Society of\nAccountants\nB. For accounts kept in language\nother than English:\n(a) Associate membership of one of\nthe bodies set out in A(a) above;\nand\n(b) Evidence of competency in the\nlanguage concerned.\n- In order to practice as an\nauthorised auditor, he must\nhave at least 5 years auditing\nexperiences.', ''], ['', '2) Foreign-based auditors are allowed to audit\nlocal accounts provided they are authorised\nby the Ministry of Finance.', '2) In order to apply to be an\nauthorised auditor, a person\nmust have as minimum\nqualifications.\nA. For accounts kept in English:\n1. Associate membership of one of\nthe following bodies:\n(a) The institute of Chartered\nAccountants (of Australia,', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 5 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'Canada, England and Wales,\nIreland, New Zealand and\nScotland).\n(b) The Association of Certified\nAccountants.\n(c) The Australian Society of\nAccountants\n(d) The New Zealand Society of\nAccountants\nB. For accounts kept in languages\nother than English.\n(a) Associate membership of one of\nthe bodies set out in A(a)\nabove; and\n(b) Evidence of competency in the\nlanguage concerned.\n- In order to practice as an\nauthorised auditor, he must\nhave at least 5 years auditing\nexperiences.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 6 -  3) Audit firm may be set up only as a sole proprietorship or partnership but has to be registered with the Registrar of Business Names. - Maximum number of partners in an audit  firms is twenty. - A partnership may consist of only individuals, local companies and/or branches of foreign companies. - Principal or only place of residence within 3) Must prove commitment to recruit and develop more local human resources.       
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Brunei Darussalam.\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.', '4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', ''], ['(h) Medical and dental services\n(9312)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal measures', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal measures', ''], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices\n(a) Consultancy services\nrelated to the installation of\ncomputer hardware\n(b) Software implementation\n(c) Data processing services\n(d) Database services\n(CPC 841, 842, 843, 844,\n845 + 849)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only\nthrough a company which is registered in\nBrunei Darussalam.\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 7 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) Rental/leasing services\nrelating to aircraft without\noperators\n(CPC 83104)', '1) Aircraft must be certified. Entry to Brunei\nDarussalam is subject to approval and\nlimitations on the basis of infrastructure\ncapacity.\n2) None\n3) Unbound except:\n(a) Only through a representative office; or\n(b) Only by appointment of a General Sales\nAgent, that is Bruneian Controlled\nCompany;\nand\n(c) Permanent address in Brunei Darussalam\nis Required with respect to (a).', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound', ''], ['', '4) Unbound except with respect to (b), one\ntechnical post subject to:\nLocal availability test, Designation of a\nspecified number of Brunei trainees.', '4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures (in\norder to practice a licensed\nprofession in Brunei Darussalam\nthe following conditions must be\nmet;\n(a) residency\n(b) registration).', ''], ['2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES', '', '', ''], ['C. Telecommunication Services', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 8 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['1. Local service\n(a) Public switched voice\ntelephone services', "1) Subject to commercial arrangements with\nlicensed operator(s).\n2) Unbound\n3) Subject to licence by the appropriate\nregulatory authority and Brunei Darussalam\nCompanies' Act.\nLocal public switched voice telephone\nservices are provided exclusively by JTB\nwhich is a government department.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', 'See annex\nThe period of exclusivity for local public\nswitched voice telephone services will\nbe extended for up to 10 years after\nprivatisation of JTB. The government\nwill conduct a review of policy with\nrespect to whether to permit additional\nsuppliers of such services upon the expiry\nof this period.'], ['2. International service\n(a) Public switched voice\ntelephone services', "1) Subject to commercial arrangements with\nlicensed operator(s).\n2) Unbound\n3) Subject to licence by the appropriate\nregulatory authority and Brunei Darussalam\nCompanies' Act.\nInternational public switched voice telephone\nservices are exclusively provided by JTB\n(government department) and DSTCom\n(private company).\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', 'The period of exclusivity for the two\noperators expires in year 2010. The\ngovernment will conduct a review of\npolicy with respect to whether to\npermit additional suppliers of such\nservices upon the expiry of this period.'], ['3. Mobile services\n(a) Public cellular mobile\ntelephone service', "1) Subject to commercial arrangements with\nlicensed operator(s).\n2) Unbound\n3) Subject to licence by the appropriate\nregulatory authority and Brunei Darussalam\nCompanies' Act.\nPublic cellular mobile telephone service\nusing AMPS and GSM technologies are\nexclusively provided by DSTCom.", '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Issuance of a licence to provide\npublic cellular mobile telephone\nservices employing other than\nAMPS and GSM technologies will be\nconsidered by the government in year\n2010 if public interest and economic\nconditions justify the issuance of\nsuch licence.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 9 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission services\n(CPC 7523**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control', '1) None', ''], ['', '2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Telex Services (CPC 7523**)\nTelegraphic Services (CPC 7522)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Subject to license by the appropriate\nregulatory authority and Brunei Darussalam\nCompanies’ Act\nThese services are being provided\nexclusively by JTB, which is a government\ndepartment.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section', 'The period of exclusivity for these\nservices will be extended for up to 10\nyears after privatisation of JTB. The\ngovernment will conduct a review of\npolicy with respect to whether to permit\nadditional suppliers of such services upon\nthe expiry period.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 10 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(f) Facsimile services\n(CPC 7521** + CPC 7529**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(h) Electronic mail\n(CPC 7523**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(j) On-line information and\ndatabase retrieval\n(CPC 7523**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(k) Electronic data interchange\n(EDI) (CPC 7523**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 11 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(l) Enhanced/value-added\nfacsimile services,\nincluding store and forward\nand retrieve\n(CPC 7523**)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal measures.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(m) Voice Mail Services\n(CPC 7523*)', '1) None except service provider must use\nPublic Telecom Network under Government\nNational Telecom Authority Control\n2) Unbound\n3) Subject to license by the appropriate\nregulatory authority and Brunei Darussalam\nCompanies’ Act\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section', ''], ['3. Construction Services\nConstruction and related\nEngineering services\nThese Sectors and Sub-sectors to\ninclude as follows:\na. General Construction\nWork for Buildings (CPC\n512)\nb. General Construction', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) i) Foreign equity participation shall not\nexceed 50%.\nii) Foreign nationals should not comprise\nmore than half of the total number of\nemployees of the company.\niii) The company should be registered within\nthe Ministry of Development.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 12 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Work for Civil\nEngineering (CPC 513)\nc. Installation and Assembly\nwork (CPC 514, 516)\nd. Building Completion and\nFinishing Work (CPC\n517)\ne. CPC 515\nThese services excluding those\nrelated to mining', '4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '4) Unbound', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\nA. All insurance and\ninsurance-related\nservices\n(a) Direct insurance (life)\nincluding annuity, disability\nincome, accident and health\ninsurance services. (CPC 8121)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only\nthrough insurance companies that are\nregistered in Brunei Darussalam.\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 13 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(b) Direct insurance (non-life)\nincluding disability income,\naccident and health insurance\nand contracts of fidelity bonds,\nperformance body or similar\ncontracts of\nguarantee. (CPC 8129)', "1) Unbound\n2) Compulsory insurance of Motor Third Party\nLiability and Workmen's Compensation can\nbe purchased only from insurance companies\nestablished in Brunei.\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only\nthrough insurance companies that are\nregistered in Brunei Darussalam.\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', ''], ['(c) Reinsurance and\nretrocession (life and non-\nlife) (CPC 81299*)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures', ''], ['(d) Insurance and\nIntermediation comprising\nbroking and agency\nservices (CPC 8140)', '1) Unbound\n2) Insurance intermediation is not allowed to\nact for unregistered insurers.\n3) (i) Broking for direct insurance of Bruneian\nrisks requires approval from MOF.\n(ii) Broker, underwriting and insurance\nmanagers require approval.\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 14 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Services auxiliary to\ninsurance, as follows:', '', '', ''], ['(a) Consultancy (excludes\ninsurance agency services to\ninsurance industry)\n(b) Actuarial risk assessment\n(c) Risk management\n(d) Maritime loss adjusting', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated under\nhorizontal measures.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated\nunder horizontal measures.', ''], ['9) TOURISM\na) Tourism Accommodation\nFacilities\ni) Budget Hotel\nii) Resort Hotel/Chalets\n(CPC 64110)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Foreign investors must enter into joint-\nventures in which aggregate local equity\nconstitutes no less than 30% of the total.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES\nA. Maritime Transport Services\na) International Passenger\nTransport ( CPC 7211)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 15 -.
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) International Freight\nTransport (CPC 7212)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['C. Air Transport Services', '', '', ''], ['(c) Rental of aircraft with crew\n(CPC 734)', '1) None except:\nAircraft must be certified\nEntry to Brunei Darussalam is subject to\napproval and limitation infrastructure\ncapacity.\n2) None\n3) Unbound except:\n(a) Only through a representative office; or\n(b) Only by appointment of a General Sales\nAgent; who is a Bruneian Controlled\nCompany; and\n(c) Permanent address in Brunei Darussalam\nwith respect to (a).\n4) Unbound except with respect to (b), one\ntechnical post subject to:\nLocal availability test;\nDesignation of a specified number of Brunei\ntrainees.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nthe horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 16 -
 Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['a) Aircraft Repair and\nMaintenance Services\n(CPC 8868)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 17 -
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 18 -ANNEX   Scope  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.    Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.    Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that   (a) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers;  and   (b) cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:   (a) control over essential facilities;  or   (b) use of its position in the market.  1. Competitive safeguards  1.1 Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications   Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  1.2 Safeguards   The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular:   (a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;     (b) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  and  
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 19 - (c) not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.   2. Interconnection  2.1 This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and  to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken.  2.2 Interconnection to be ensured   Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided.   (a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates;   (b) in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided;  and   (c) upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.  2.3 Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations   The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available.  2.4 Transparency of interconnection arrangements   It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer.   2.5 Interconnection:  dispute settlement   A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either: 
KA-ATS/SC1/BRU - 20 -  (a) at any time or   (b) after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known  to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously.  3. Universal service   Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.       4. Public availability of licensing criteria   Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available:   (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence  and   (b) the terms and conditions of  individual licences.   The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request.  5. Independent regulators   The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.  6. Allocation and use of scarce resources   Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
   KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                           ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         CAMBODIA  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                 
 CAMBODIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-Border supply               2)  Consumption abroad                  3)  Commercial presence                 4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS APPLICABLE TO SECTORS LISTED IN THE SECTORAL PART OF THE SCHEDULE', None, None, None], ['Subsidies', '', '(3), (4) Unbound for subsidies, including\nfor research and development.', ''], ['Tax measures', '', '(1), (2), (3) None with respect to taxes', ''], ['Land', '', '(3) Non-Cambodian natural and juridical\npersons may lease but not own land.', ''], ['Acquired rights', 'The conditions of ownership, management,\noperation, juridical form and scope of activities\nas set out in a license or other form of approval\nestablishing or authorizing the operation or\nsupply of services by an existing foreign\nservice supplier, will not be made more\nrestrictive than those in existence as of the date\nof Cambodia’s accession to the WTO.', '', ''], ['Investment incentives', '(3) Investors, seeking incentives under the\nprovisions of the Law on Investment,\nshall have the obligation to provide\nadequate and consistent training to\nCambodian staff, including for promotion\nto senior positions.', '(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 2 -
 Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-Border supply               2)  Consumption abroad                  3)  Commercial presence                 4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Presence of natural persons', '(4) Unbound except for measures concerning\nthe entry and temporary stay of a natural\nperson who falls in one of the following\ncategories:\nBusiness visitors\nA natural person who:\n- enters Cambodia for the purposes of\nparticipating in business meetings,\nestablishing business contacts including\nnegotiations for the sale of services and/or\nother similar activities;\n- stays in Cambodia without receiving\nincome from within Cambodian sources;\n- does not engage in making direct sales to\nthe general public or supplying services.\nEntry visa for business visitors shall be valid\nfor a period of 90 days for an initial stay of 30\ndays, which may be extended.', '(4) Unbound, except for measures\naffecting the categories referred to\nunder market access.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 3 -
 Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-Border supply               2)  Consumption abroad                  3)  Commercial presence                 4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Persons responsible for setting up of a\ncommercial establishment:\nPersons working in an executive or managerial\nposition, receiving remuneration from an entity\nas defined below, who are responsible for the\nsetting up, in Cambodia, of a commercial\npresence of a service provider of a Member, that\nwill support employment of persons described in\na, b, and c below. The subject persons are not\nsubject to a maximum duration of stay.\nIntra-Corporate Transferees\nNatural persons who have been employed by a\njuridical person of another member for a period\nof not less than 1 year and who seek temporary\nentry to provide services through a branch,\nsubsidiary and affiliate in Cambodia and who\nare:\na) Executives: without requiring compliance\nwith labour market tests, persons within an\norganization who primarily direct the\nmanagement of the organization, exercise wide\nlatitude in decision-making, and receive only\ngeneral supervision or direction from higher-\nlevel executives, the board of directors, or\nshareholders of the business. Executives would\nnot directly perform tasks related to the actual\nsupply of a service or services of the\norganization.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 4 -
 Modes of Supply:     1)  Cross-Border supply               2)  Consumption abroad                  3)  Commercial presence                 4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "b) Managers: without requiring compliance\nwith labour market tests, natural persons\nemployed by a juridical entity and who possess\nknowledge at an advanced level of expertise or\nproprietary knowledge of a juridical entity\nproduct, service, research, equipment,\ntechniques, or management, and who primarily\ndirect the organization or a department of the\norganization; supervise and control the work of\nother supervisory, professional or managerial\nemployees; have the authority to hire and fire\nor recommend hiring, firing or other personnel\nactions; and exercise discretionary authority\nover day-to-day operations. They do not\ninclude first-line supervisors, unless the\nemployees supervised are professionals, nor do\nthey include employees who primarily perform\ntasks necessary for the supply of the service.\nc) Specialists: Natural persons, within an\norganization who possess knowledge at an\nadvanced level of continued expertise and who\npossess proprietary knowledge of the\norganization's services, research equipment,\ntechniques, or management.\nTemporary residency and work permit is\nrequired for the natural persons in the\ncategories defined under intra-corporate\ntransferees. Such permits are issued for two\nyears and may be renewed annually up to\nmaximum of total five years.", '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 5 - 
  Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['I. BUSINESS SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Professional Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Legal services\n(CPC 861):', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) In commercial association with\nCambodian law firms1, and may not\ndirectly represent clients in courts.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['Foreign legal consultancy on\nlaw of jurisdiction where\nservice supplier is qualified\nas a lawyer (including home\ncountry law, third country\nlaw, and international law)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(b) Accounting, auditing,\nbookkeeping\n(CPC 86211, 86212, 86220)', '(1) None, except must have commercial\npresence in Cambodia for auditing\nservices.\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(c) Taxation services (CPC\n8630)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 6 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(d) Architectural services\n(consulting, planning or\ndesign services)\n(CPC 8671)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)\n(f) Integrated engineering\nservices\n(CPC 8673)\n(g) Urban planning and\nlandscape architectural\nservices\n(CPC 8674)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(h) Specialized medical services\n(CPC 93122)\nDental services (CPC\n93123**)\nThese services are limited\nonly to orthodontic services,\noral surgery, and other\nspecialized dental services', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Provision of services is permitted through\na joint venture with Cambodian juridical\npersons\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['2. Computer and Related Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Consultancy services related\nto the installation of\ncomputer hardware\n(CPC 841)\n(b) Software implementation\nservices\n(CPC 842)\n(c) Data processing services\n(CPC 843)\n(d) Data base services\n(CPC 844)\n(e) Other\n(CPC 845+849)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 7 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['5. Rental/Leasing Services without Operators', None, None, None], ['(d) Renting and leasing of studio\nrecording equipment\n(CPC 83109**)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['6. Other Business Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Advertising services (CPC\n871)', '(1), (2), (3) Unbound until\n31 December 2008.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1), (2), (3) Unbound until\n31 December 2008.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Cambodia will undertake commitment\nno later than 1 January 2009.'], ['(b) Market research services\n(CPC 86401)\n(c) Management consulting\nservices (CPC 865)\n(d) Services related to man.\nConsulting\n(CPC 866)\n(e) Technical testing and\nanalysis services (CPC 8676)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(h) Services incidental to mining\n(CPC 883**)\n(j) Services incidental to energy\ndistribution (887**)\nExclusively covers only\nconsultancy services related\nto the transmission and\ndistribution on a fee or\ncontract basis of electricity,\ngaseous fuels and steam and\nhot water to household,\nindustrial, commercial and\nother users', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 8 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(k) Placement and supply\nservices of Personnel\n(CPC 872)\n(m) Engineering related scientific\nand technical consulting\nservices (CPC 8675)\n(q) Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['II. COMMUNICATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['2. Courier Services', None, None, None], ['Courier services (CPC 7512)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['3. Telecommunication Services\nCommitments are taken consistent with "Notes for Scheduling Basic Telecom Services Commitments" (S/GBT/W/2/Rev.1) and Market Access Limitations on Spectrum\nAvailability" (S/GBT/W/3).', None, None, None], ['(a) Voice telephone services\n(CPC 7521)\n(b) Packet-switched data\ntransmission services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(d) Telex services (CPC 7523**)\n(e) Telegraph services (CPC\n7522)\n(f) Facsimile services (CPC\n7521**+ 7529**)\n(g) Private leased circuit services\n(CPC 7522**+7523**)', '(1) Services provided only over the circuits\nleased from Telecom Cambodia. Starting\nno later than 1 January 2009: None\n(2) None\n(3) Provided exclusively by Telecom\nCambodia. Starting no later than 1\nJanuary 2009: None, except subject to\nrequirement for local share holding of up\nto 49%.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Services provided only over the\ncircuits leased from Telecom\nCambodia. Starting no later than\n1 January 2009: None\n(2) None\n(3) Provided exclusively by Telecom\nCambodia. Starting no later than\n1 January 2009: None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Cambodia undertakes obligations\ncontained in the Reference Paper\nattached.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 9 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(h) E-mail (CPC 7523**)\n(i) Voice-mail (CPC 7523**)\n(j) On-line information and data\nbase-retrieval (CPC 7523**)\n(k) Electronic Data Interchange\n(CPC 7523**)\n(l) Enhanced/value added\nfacsimile services, incl. store\nand forward, store and\nretrieve (7523**)\n(m) Code and protocol\nconversion\n(n) On-line information and/or\ndata processing (including\ntransaction processing)\n(CPC 843**)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(o) Other services:\n- Mobile services', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', 'Cambodia commits to permit\nlicensed suppliers of mobile\ntelecommunications services choice of\ntechnology used in the supply of such\nservices.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 10 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['III. CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. General Construction Work\nfor Buildings\n(CPC 512)\n2. General Construction Work\nfor Civil Engineering\n(CPC 513)\n3. Installation and Assembly\nWork (CPC 514; CPC 516)\n4. Building Completion and\nFinishing Work\n(CPC 517)\n5. Other\n(CPC 511, 515, 518)', '(1) Unbound∗\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound*\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['IV. DISTRIBUTION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Commission agents’ services\n(CPC 621)', '(1), (2), (3) Unbound until\n31 December 2008, thereafter, None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Cambodia will undertake\ncommitments no later than\n1 January 2009.'], ['2. Wholesale trade services\nWholesale trade services of\nmotor vehicles (CPC61111)\nSales of parts of motor\nvehicles (CPC6113)\nSales of motorcycles and\nrelated parts (CPC6121)\nWholesale trade services of\nradio and television\nequipment, musical\ninstruments and records,\nmusic scores and tapes\n(CPC62244)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 11 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3. Retailing services\n- Retail sales of motor vehicles\n(CPC 61112);\n- Sales of parts of motor\nvehicles (CPC 6113);\n- Sales of motorcycles and\nrelated parts (CPC 6121).\nFor supermarkets and large\ndepartment stores only2:\n- Food and non-food retailing\nservices (CPC631+632),\nexcluding sales of\npharmaceutical goods,\nmedical and orthopaedic\ngoods (CPC63211).\n- Retailing services of radio\nand television equipment,\nmusic instruments, music\nscores, and audio and video\nrecords and tapes (CPC\n63234)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['5. Franchising services\n(CPC 8929)', '(1), (2), (3) Unbound until\n31 December 2008, thereafter, None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Cambodia will undertake\ncommitments no later than\n1 January 2009.'], ['6. Other\n- Retail sales of motor fuel\n(CPC 613)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 12 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['V. EDUCATIONAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['3. Higher education services\n(CPC 923)\n4. Adult education\n(CPC 924)\n5. Other education services\n(CPC 929)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', 'Cambodia will seek to establish an\nindependent national accrediting\nprocess for market purposes in\neducation and professional services\nwhich is in keeping with global\npractice.'], ['VI. ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Sewage services\n(CPC 9401)\n2. Refuse disposal services\n(CPC 9402)\n3. Sanitation and similar\nservices (CPC 9403)\n4. Other services\n- Cleaning of exhaust gases\n(CPC 9404)\n- Noise abatement services\n(CPC 9405)\n- Nature and landscape\nprotection services\n(CPC 9406)\n- Other environmental services\nnot included elsewhere\n(CPC 9409)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['VII. FINANCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. All insurance and insurance-related services', None, None, None], ['(a) Life insurance services\n(CPC 81211)', '(1) Natural or juridical person can enter into\ncontract only with the insurance\ncompanies licensed to carry out insurance\nbusiness in the Kingdom of Cambodia\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 13 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(b) Non-life insurance services\n(CPC 8129)', '(1) None for marine, aviation, and transport\ninsurance from 1 January 2009, or once a\nlaw has been passed, the appropriate\nregulations in place and a local firm\nauthorized, whichever comes first.\nUntil the conditions above are met,\nmarine, aviation and transport insurance\nservices may be supplied by insurance\ncompanies licensed to carry out insurance\nbusiness in the Kingdom of Cambodia.\nFor all other non-life insurance services,\nnatural or juridical persons can enter into\ncontract only with the insurance\ncompanies licensed to carry out insurance\nbusiness in the Kingdom of Cambodia.\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) Reinsurance and retrocession\n(CPC 81299)', '(1) None, except companies must reinsure\n20% of their risk in Cambodia Re until\n31 December 2008. Insurance contracts\nof total sum insured of less than or equal\nto USD 500,000 must be reinsured locally\nuntil 31 December 2008. Thereafter,\nNone\n(2) None\n(3) None, except companies must reinsure\n20% of their risk in Cambodia Re until\n1 January 2008. Thereafter, None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 14 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(d) Services auxiliary to\ninsurance (including broking\nand agency services)\n(CPC 8140)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 15 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['2. Banking and other financial services', None, None, None], ['The commitments for subsectors\n(a), (b) and (d) refer to commercial\nbanking only.\n(a) Acceptance of deposits and\nother repayable funds from\nthe public (CPC 81115 –\n81119)\n(b) Lending of all types,\nincluding, inter alia,\nconsumer credit, mortgage\ncredit, factoring and\nfinancing of commercial\ntransaction (CPC 8113);\n(d) All payment and money\ntransmission service,\nincluding credit, charge and\ndebit cards, traveller cheques\nand bankers drafts (CPC\n813393)', '(1) None, except deposits from the public\nmust be reinvested in Cambodia\n(2) None\n(3) None, except only permitted through\nauthorized financial institutions as banks\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['The commitments for subsectors\n(c) and (e) refer to commercial\nbanking only.\n(c) Financial leasing\n(e) Guarantees and commitments', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound until related laws and\nregulations are established\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(f) Trading for own account or\nfor account of customers,\nwhether on an exchange, in\nan over-the-counter market\nor otherwise, the following', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound for subsectors (f) – (l), until the\nGovernment of Cambodia determines\nwhat types of entities can conduct these\nservices, the related laws and regulation', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 16 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(A) money market\ninstruments (including\ncheques, bills, certificates of\ndeposits);\n(B) foreign exchange\n(C) derivative products\nincluding, but not limited to,\nfutures and options;\n(D) exchange rate and\ninterest rate instruments,\nincluding products such as\nswaps, forward rate\nagreements;\n(E) transferable securities;\n(F) other negotiable\ninstruments and financial\nassets, including bullion\n(g) Participation in issues of all\nkinds of securities, including\nunderwriting and placement\nas agency (whether publicly\nor privately) and provision of\nservices related to such\nissues;\n(h) Money broking;\n(i) Asset management, such as\ncash or portfolio\nmanagement, all forms of\ncollective investment\nmanagement, pension fund\nmanagement, custodial,\ndepository and trust services;\n(j) Settlement and clearing', 'are established, and such business is\nauthorized by the government or other\nrelevant designated authority.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 17 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['services for financial assets,\nincluding securities,\nderivative products, and\nother negotiable instruments;\n(k) Provision of financial\ninformation, and financial\ndata processing and related\nsoftware by suppliers of\nother financial services\n(l) Advisory, intermediation and\nother auxiliary financial\nservices on all the activities\nlisted in subparagraphs (v)\nthrough (xv), including credit\nreference and analysis,\ninvestment and portfolio\nresearch and advice, advice\non acquisitions and on\ncorporate restructuring and\nstrategy.', '', '', ''], ['VIII. HEALTH RELATED AND SOCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Hospital services\nOwnership and management\nof private hospitals and\nclinics only', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None, except at least one director for\ntechnical matters must be Cambodian\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 18 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['IX. TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Hotels (CPC 64110)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None for hotel 3 stars or higher4 .\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Restaurants (CPC 642, 643)', '(1) Unbound*\n(2) None\n(3) Permit is granted taking into account\ncharacteristics of the area5\n(4) Unbound', '(1) Unbound*\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['2. Travel agencies and tour\noperators services\n(CPC7471)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None, except foreign equity participation\nlimited to 51% for travel agencies\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['3. Tourist guides services\n(CPC 7472)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section. Cambodian nationality\nrequirement for tourist guides', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['X. RECREATIONAL, CULTURAL AND SPORTING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['- Other entertainment services\nn.e.c. (CPC 96199):\n-- Cinema theatre services,\nincluding cinema projection\nservices', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 19 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['XI. TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['1. Maritime Services', None, None, None], ['International transport (Freight\nand passengers) (CPC7211 and\n7212), excluding cabotage', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', 'Where not otherwise made available\nto the international maritime transport\nsuppliers pursuant to Article XXVIII\n(c) (ii), no measures shall be applied\nwhich deny reasonable and non-\ndiscriminatory access to the following\nservices:\n1. Towing and tug assistance;\n2. Provisioning, fuelling and\nwatering;\n3. Garbage collecting and ballast\nwaste disposal;\n4. Emergency repair facilities;\n5. Lightering and water taxi\nservices;\n6. Ship agencies;\n7. Custom brokers;\n8. Stevedoring and terminal\nservices;\n9. Surveying and classification\nservices.'], ['3. Air Transport Services', None, None, None], ['- Aircraft repair and\nmaintenance services\n(CPC 8868)\n- Selling and marketing of air\ntransport services\n- Computer Reservation\nSystem Services (CRS)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 20 -
 Modes of Supply:    1)  Cross-Border supply                 2)  Consumption abroad                     3)  Commercial presence             4)  Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['6. Road Transport Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7121 + 7122)\n(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7123)\n(c) Rental of commercial\nvehicles with operator\n(CPC 7124)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['(d) Maintenance and repair of\nroad transport equipment\n(CPC 6112+8867)\n(e) Supporting services for road\ntransport services\n(CPC 744)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['7. Pipeline Transport Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Transport of fuels (CPC\n7131)\n(b) Transport of other goods\n(CPC 7139)', '(1) Services must be provided through a\ncontract of concession granted by the\nState on case-by- cases basis.\n(2) None\n(3) Services must be provided through a\ncontract of concession granted by the\nState on case-by-cases basis.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 21 -
    REFERENCE PAPER  Scope  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.  Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.  Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that:   (a) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers; and   (b) cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:   (a) control over essential facilities; or  (b) use of its position in the market.  1.   Competitive safeguards  1.1.  Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications   Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  1.2.   Safeguards   The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular:   (a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;  (b) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results; and  (c) not making available to other services suppliers on timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.  2.   Interconnection  2.1.   This section applies to linking with suppliers, providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to 
    communicate with users of another supplier and to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken.  2.2.   Interconnection to be ensured   Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided:   (a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (incl. technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates;  (b) in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (incl. technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided; and  (c) upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.  2.3.  Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations   The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available.  2.4.   Transparency of interconnection arrangements   It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer.  2.5.   Interconnection: dispute settlement   A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either:   (a) at any time or  (b) after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously.  3.   Universal service   Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal 
     4.   Public availability of licencing criteria   Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available:   (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for  a licence and  (b) the terms and conditions of individual licences.   The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request.  5. Independent regulators   The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services.  The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.  6. Allocation and use of scarce resources  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required. 
 List of Article II (MFN) Exemptions of Cambodia  
[['Sector or sub-sector', 'Description of measure indicating its\ninconsistency with Article II', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended\nduration', 'Conditions creating the\nneed for the exemption'], ['Audiovisual services\n- Production and\ndistribution of television\nprogrammes and\ncinematographic works', 'Measures based upon coproduction\nagreements of audiovisual works, which\nconfer National Treatment to audiovisual\nworks covered by such agreements.', 'Countries with which such\nbilateral or plurilateral\nagreements are in force, now\nor in the future', 'Indefinite', 'The aim of these agreements is to\npromote cultural links between the\ncountries concerned'], ['Audiovisual Services\n– Production and\ndistribution of television\nprogrammes and\ncinematographic works', 'Measures granting the benefit of support\nprogrammes (such as “Fonds d’aide a la\nproduction de l”agence intergouvernmental\nde la Francophonie”) to audiovisual works,\nand suppliers of such works meeting origin\ncriteria.', 'Countries with which bilateral\nand plurilateral agreements\nhave been signed in the area of\ncultural cooperation.', 'Indefinite', 'These programmes aim at preserving\nand promoting the cultural identity of\ncountries with which Cambodia has a\nlong-standing cultural links'], ['Audiovisual services\n- Production and\ndistribution of\naudiovisual works\nthrough broadcasting\ntransmission to the public', 'Measures which extend National Treatment\nto audiovisual works which meet certain\norigin criteria regarding access to\nbroadcasting transmission.', 'Countries with which bilateral\nor plurilateral agreements\nconcluded in the area of\ncultural cooperation.', 'Indefinite', 'These measures aim, within the\nsector, to promote cultural values\nboth within Cambodia, and with other\ncountries, including in the region'], ['Land transport', 'Facilitation of transport and transit transport\nagreements.', 'Existing and future bilateral or\nplurilateral agreements', 'Indefinite', 'The need to promote tourism and\ntrade in transport services especially\namong the neighbouring countries.'], ['Internal waterways', 'Establishes procedures, charges, and\nspecific regulations applicable for ships of\ncountries concerned operating in Mekong\nriver basin.', 'Existing and future bilateral or\nplurilateral agreements', 'Indefinite', 'Ensure and facilitate navigation in the\nMekong river.'], ['Maritime transport', 'Establishes procedures, charges, and\nspecific regulations for maritime transport\napplicable for ships of countries concerned\noperating in Siam Gulf.', 'Existing and future bilateral or\nplurilateral agreements', 'Indefinite', 'Ensure and facilitate navigation in the\nSiam Gulf.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/CAM - 25 - 
  KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         INDONESIA  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)     
INDONESIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS INCLUDED\nIN THIS SCHEDULE', '3) Commercial Presence of the foreign service\nprovider(s) may be in the form of joint\nventure and/or representative office, unless\nmentioned otherwise.\nJoint venture should meet the following\nrequirements:\n(i) should be in the form of Limited\nLiability Enterprise (Perseroan\nTerbatas/PT),\n(ii) not more than 49% of the capital share\nof the Limited Liability Enterprise\n(Perseroan Terbatas/PT), may be owned\nby foreign partner(s).', '3) The Income Tax Law provides that non-resident\ntaxpayers will be subject to withholding tax of\n20% if they derive the following income from\nIndonesian source:\n(a) interest\n(b) royalties\n(c) dividend\n(d) fee from service performed in Indonesia\nLand Acquisition\nUndang-Undang Pokok Agraria (Land Law) No.\n5 of 1960 stipulates that no foreigners (juridical\nand natural persons) are allowed to own land.\nHowever, a joint venture enterprise could hold\nthe right for land use (Hak Guna Usaha) and\nbuilding rights (Hak Guna Bangunan), and they\nmay rent/lease land and property.\nAny juridical and natural persons should meet\nprofessional qualification requirements.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 2 -      
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on market access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Subject to Indonesian Labour and\nImmigration Laws and Regulations, only\ndirectors, managers and technical\nexperts/advisors, unless mentioned\notherwise, are allowed to stay for two years\nand could be extended for a maximum two\ntimes subject to two years extension each\ntime. Manager and technical experts (intra\ncorporate transfer) are allowed based on an\neconomic needs test.\nThe entry and temporary stay of business\nvisitor(s) is (are) permitted for a period of 60\ndays and could be extended maximum for\n120 days.', '4) Expatriate Charges\nAny foreign natural persons supplying services\nare subject to charges levied by Governments\nLabour Laws and Regulations.\nAny expatriate employed by a joint-venture\nenterprise, representatives office, and/or other\ntypes of juridical person and/or an individual\nservices provider must hold a valid working\npermit issued by the Ministry of Manpower and\nTransmigration', ''], ['Definitions:\n"Director": One or a group of persons entrusted by the shareholders of a services providing entity with the final overall control and direction of the enterprise, and legally\nresponsible to act on behalf of the enterprises inside and/or outside of the court.\n"Manager": Senior employee of a service supplier who primarily directs the management of the organization, receiving general supervision or direction principally from the\nboard of directors of the business, including directing the service supplier or a department or sub-division thereof, supervising or controlling the work of other supervisory,\nprofessional or managerial employee or having the authority to hire or fire or recommend such or other personnel actions.\n"Technical Expert/Advisor": Person employed by a service supplier who possesses a standard of high or common (i) qualifications referring to a type of work or trade\nrequiring specific technical knowledge or (ii) knowledge essential or proprietal to the service, research equipment, techniques or management.\n"Joint Operation ": A joint operation is an undertaking between one or several foreign and Indonesian enterprises of temporary nature, to handle one or several\nproject/businesses without establishing a new statutory body according to Indonesian laws\n"Joint venture Enterprise": A joint venture enterprise is a legal entity organized under Indonesian law and having its domicile in Indonesia, in the form of cooperation\nbetween foreign capital and Indonesian ( national) capital.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 3 -
 “Contract Management” : Contract management is a contract organize under Indonesian law in the form of cooperation on management of temporary nature between Indonesian (national) capital and foreign capital.   “Business Visitor(s)” is (are) natural person staying in Indonesia for the purpose of participating in business meeting, business contract including negotiations for the sales of services and /or other similar activities including those who prepare for the establishment of a commercial presence in Indonesia, without acquiring remuneration and /or any other direct income from within Indonesia, and are not engaged in making direct sales or supplying services to general public.    Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['BUSINESS SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Professional Services', None, None, None], ['a. Legal Services\n(Advisory services in home\ncountry law, and international\nlaw).\n(CPC 861)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except for foreign lawyers\n(advokat).\nForeign lawyers (advokat) are allowed to\nwork or take part in Indonesian law firm\nas employees or as experts in International\nLaw, but shall not appear in courts and/or\nundertake legal proceedings under any\ncircumstances.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except for foreign lawyers\n(advokat).\nForeign lawyers (advokat) are :\n- only allowed as employees or experts in\nIndonesian law firm\n- obliged to transfer legal knowledge and\nprofessional capabilities to Indonesian\nLawyers\n- obliged to transfer knowledge to\neducation, legal research, or government\ninstitutions at least 10 hours each month\nfree of charge.\nThe share of foreign lawyers (advokat) in\nIndonesian law firm must not exceed 20 per\ncent, and shall be limited to five foreign\nlawyers (advokat) per firm.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 4 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Definition :\nLawyer (advocate) is person who has the profession of providing legal service in and outside the court.\nInternational law means law established by international treaties and conventions as well as customary law', None, None, None], ['Architectural Services\n(CPC 8671)\nEngineering Services\n(CPC 8672 except CPC 86721-\n86725-86726)\nIntegrated Engineering Services\n(CPC 8673)\nUrban Planning Services\n(CPC 86741)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a) Joint operation by establishing a\nrepresentative office in Indonesia.\nLicense for representative office\nshall be valid for 3 years and can be\nextended\nJoint venture company by fulfilling the\nrequirements as specified in the\nHorizontal Section and the Foreign\nCapital Investment Law\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a) 1. License fee requirement\n2. Registered foreign company shall\nfor a joint operation with local\npartner(s) which is (are) registered\nby Construction Services\nDevelopment Board and having\nqualification A/Big\nb) Local partner (s) in joint venture shall be\nregistered by Construction Services\nDevelopment Board and having\nqualification A/Big\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], [None, None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 5 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', ''], ['Engineering Design\nServices for Industrial\nProcesses and Production\n(CPC 86725)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint operation\nmust be a member of Indonesian Consultant\nAssociation\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices\nConsultancy Services related to\nthe installation of computer\nhardware\n(CPC 841)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and\ntechnical expert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint operation\nmust be member of Indonesian Consultant\nAssociation\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Software Implementation\nServices (CPC 842)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint operation\nmust be member of Indonesian Consultant\nAssociation\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', None], [None, None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 6 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 84400*)', '2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint\noperation must be member of Indonesian\nConsultant Association\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['C. Research and Development\nServices\nInterdisciplinary R&D\n(CPC853, limited to\nIndustrial Activities)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint\noperation must be member of Indonesian\nConsultant Association\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['F. OTHER SERVICES\nTechnical Testing and\nAnalysis Services\n(CPC 8676)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint\noperation must be member of Indonesian\nConsultant Association\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 7 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['i. Services incidental of\nmanufacturing\n(CPC 884 & 885 Except for\n88442)', '1) None except for government funded\nproject\n2) None except for government funded\nproject\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None except for government funded project\n2) None except for government funded project\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint operation\nmust be member of Indonesian Consultant\nAssociation\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Maintenance and Repair of\nEquipment (not including maritime\nvessel, air craft, or other transport\nequipment)\n(CPC 633+8861+8866)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint\noperation must be member of Indonesian\nConsultant Association\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Project Management\nServices other than for\nConstruction\n(CPC 86601)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nexpert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Indonesian participant in joint\noperation must be member of Indonesian\nConsultant Association\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 8 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES C. Telecommunication Services 
[['Local service:\nPublic Switched Telephone\nServices (CPC 7521)\nCircuit Switched Public Data\nNetwork Services (CPC 7523**)\nTeleconferencing Services\n(CPC 75292)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through joint venture with local\nprivate sector\nForeign equity participation is limited to\n35 per cent.\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert for JVC is limited to 20\npersons', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Long Distance Services:\nPublic Switched Telephone\nService (CPC 7521)\nCircuit Switched Public Data\nNetwork Services (CPC 7523**)\nTeleconferencing Services\n(CPC 75292)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through joint venture with local\nprivate sector\nForeign equity participation is limited to\n40 per cent', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 9 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Natural person for management and\ntechnical expert for JVC is limited to 20\npersons', '4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['International:\nPublic Switched Telephone\nService (CPC 7521)\nCircuit Switched Public Data\nNetwork Services (CPC 7523**)\nTeleconferencing Services\n(CPC 75292)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through joint venture with local\nprivate sector\nForeign equity participation is limited to\n40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert for JVC is limited to 20\npersons', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Packet-switched public data\nnetwork services (CPC 7523**)\n- X.25\n- Frame relay\n- Local\n- Local distance\n- International', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through Joint venture with local\nprivate sector. Foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert is limited to 20 persons', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Telex Services', '1) None\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 10 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) Only through Joint venture with local\nprivate sector. Foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert is limited to 20 persons', '3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Telegraph Services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through Joint venture with local\nprivate sector. Foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert is limited to 20 persons', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Domestic:\nMobile Cellular Telephone\n(CPC 75213)\nPersonal Mobile Cellular\nCommunication\nRegional and National Paging\nService\n(CPC 75291)\nPublic Payphone Service', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only through Joint venture with local\nprivate sector. Foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert is limited to 20 persons', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Internet Access Services', '1) None\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 11 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) Only through Joint venture with local\nprivate sector. Foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 40 per cent\n4) Natural persons for management and\ntechnical expert is limited to 20 persons', '3) None\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Voice mail services\n(CPC 7523)\nElectronic mail services\n(CPC 75232)\nComputer time sharing services\n(CPC 84330)\nVideo text services\n(CPC 75229)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Access granted for five foreign services\nprovider companies, in addition to the\nexisting companies\n4) Unbound, except for director and\ntechnical expert', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Higher paid up capital is required of foreign\nservice suppliers than of domestic services\nsuppliers. This measure will be eliminated in\nthe year 2020.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Electronic mail box\n(CPC 75232)\nFile transfer services\n(CPC 75299)\nHome telemetering alarm\n(CPC 75299)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Access granted for five foreign services\nprovider companies, in addition to the\nexisting companies', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Higher paid up capital is required of foreign\nservice suppliers than of domestic services\nsuppliers. This measure will be eliminated in\nthe year 2020.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 12 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Entertainment services\n(CPC 75299)\nManagement information services\n(CPC 75299)', '4) Unbound, except for director and\ntechnical expert', '4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['3. CONSTRUCTION SERVICES AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES:', None, None, None], ['Pre-erection Work at Construction\nSite (CPC 511)\nConstruction Work for Buildings\n(CPC 512)\nConstruction Work for Civil\nEngineering (CPC513)\nAssembly and Erection of\nPrefabricated Constructions\n(CPC 514)\nSpecial Trade Construction\n(CPC 515)\nInstallation Work (CPC516)\nBuilding Completion and Finishing\nWork (CPC517)\nRenting Services Related\nEquipment for Construction or\nDemolition of Building or Civil', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3)\na) Joint operation:\nto form a joint operation by\nestablishing a representative office in\nIndonesia.\nb) Joint venture:\nto establish a limited liability\nenterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT)\nNot more than 55% of the capital\nshare of the Limited Liability\nEnterprise (Perseroan Terbatas/PT)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) a) Joint Operation\nRegistration License fee\nrequirement\nLicense for representative office shall be\nvalid for 3 years and can be extended.\nRegistered foreign company shall form a\njoint operation with local partner(s)\nwhich is (are) entity(ties) certified\naccording to prevailing laws and\nregulations\nb) Joint Venture\nThe establishment of joint venture\ncompany would need to have a local\npartner(s) which is (are) entity(ties)\ncertified according to prevailing laws and', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 13 -.
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 518)', '', 'regulations\nNot more than 55% of the capital share\nas the Limited Liability Enterprise\n(Perseroan Terbatas/PT)', ''], [None, '4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', None], ['EDUCATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['General conditions on education services\nCommercial presence of the foreign service provider is permitted only through an education institution which is registered in Indonesia and must meet the following\nconditions :\n1. Mutual recognition arrangement between relevant institutions on credits, programs, and certifications is required.\n2. Foreign education institution providing services must establish partnership with local partner. Foreign language instructors must be native and Indonesian speakers.\n3. Foreign education institution must be listed in the Ministry of Education’s List of Accredited Foreign Education and its local partner must be accredited.\n4. Foreign education institution in cooperation with local partner may open education institution in the cities of Jakarta, Surabaya, Bandung, Yogyakarta, and Medan.\n5. Temporary entry for natural persons engaged in education activities in Indonesia is subject to approval by the Ministry of National Education. Approval is granted on\ncase-by-case basis.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 14 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Secondary education services:', None, None, None], ['Technical and vocational secondary\neducation services (electronic\nautomotive)\n(CPC 92230)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General\nConditions', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) As indicated in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions', ''], ['Post secondary technical and\nvocational education services\n(Polytechnique Machine and\nElectrical) (CPC 92310)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General\nConditions', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['D. Adult Education (CPC 924)\nLanguage courses and training', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General\nConditions', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 15 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Other Education services\n(CPC 92900)\nFootball and chess only', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General\nConditions', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['FINANCIAL SERVICES\nGeneral condition on Non Banking Financial Services Sub-sector\n1. All Market Access and National Treatment limitation specified in the Non Banking Financial Services Sub-sector will be eliminated by the year 2020 subject to similar\ncommitment by other Member.\n2. The share ownership of foreign services supplier is bound at the prevailing laws and regulation. The conditions of ownership and the percentage share of ownership as\nstipulated in the respective shareholder agreement establishing the existing individual joint venture in non banking financial services shall be respected. No transfer of\nownership shall take place without the consent of all parties in the joint venture concerned,\n3. Limitation on national treatment in terms of taxation which is specified in the Horizontal Measures is not applied on the Non Banking Financial Services Sub-sector.\n4. In addition to the Horizontal Measures, temporary entry will be granted to technical expert(s)/adviser(s) for no longer than 3 (three) months per person for any gives year.\n5. Share of non-bank financial companies listed in the stock exchange may be 100% owned by foreign investor.\n6. In relation to the presence of natural persons, only directors, managers, and experts/advisors can be assumed by expatriates with maximum stay of 3 years and can be\nextended\n7. All joint venture companies shall provide training for their employee.', None, None, None], ['Non-Life Insurance Services\n(CPC 81291, 81292, 81294, 81295,\n81296, 81297, 81299)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound except if :', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 16 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(a) There is no insurance company in\nIndonesia, either individually or group,\nwhich could handle the insurance risk of\nthe object in question.\n(b) There is no insurance company in\nIndonesia which want to carry out an\ninsurance coverage of the object in\nquestion.\n(c) The owners of insurance objects in\nquestion are not Indonesian citizens or\nIndonesian legal entities.\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions.\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nadvisor/expert.', '3) As specified in the General Conditions\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', ''], ['Reinsurance Services', '1) Reinsurance service suppliers from other\nMembers must be rated minimum as BBB\nby Standard and Poor or equivalent.\n2) Reinsurance service suppliers from other\nMembers must be rated minimum as BBB\nby Standard and Poor or equivalent.\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions.\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nadvisor/expert.', '1) None\n2) Unbound\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', ''], ['Life Insurance Service\n(CPC 8121)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound except if :\n(a) There is no insurance company in\nIndonesia, either individually or group,\nwhich could handle the insurance risk of', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 17 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'the object in question.\n(b) There is no insurance company in\nIndonesia which wants to carry out an\ninsurance coverage of the object in\nquestion.\n(c) The owner of insurance object in question\nare not Indonesia citizens or Indonesian\nlegal entities.\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions.\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nadvisor/except.', '3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Insurance Brokerage Services\n(CPC 8140)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions.\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nadvisor/except.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Reinsurance Brokerage Services\n(CPC 8140)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions.\n4) Unbound except for director and technical\nadvisor/expert.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 18 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Financial Lease Services\n(CPC 81120)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Factoring Services\n(CPC 8113)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Credit Card Business (Issuer and\nAgent of Credit Card)\n(CPC 8113)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 19 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Consumers Finance Services\n(CPC 8113)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\nand General Conditions\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Securities Business\nTrading for own account or for\naccount of customers, on an\nexchange or over-the counter\nmarket\n- Listed shares\n- Bonds', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Through establishment of a securities\nbroker/dealer.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4)\nAs specified in the Horizontal Section.', ''], ['Participation in issues of securities,\nincluding underwriting and\nplacement as agent (whether\npublicly or privately), and provision\nof services related to such issues', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Through establishment of a securities\nunderwriter company.\n4)\nUnbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 20 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Portfolio management, all forms of\ncollective investment management', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Through establishment of a securities\ncompany as an investment manager.\n4) Unbound except for directors.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', ''], ['Asset Management limited only to\ninvestment fund management', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Through establishment of a securities\ncompany as an investment manager.\n4) Unbound except for directors.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the General Conditions.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', ''], ['Investment Advisory Services\nlimited only to investment advisory\nin capital market', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Through establishment of an Investment\nadvisory company. (Bapepam rule No.\nV.C.1)\n4) Unbound except for directors.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) As specified in the general condition.\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 21 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['General conditions on Banking Sub-sector :\n1. With the exception of the existing branches of foreign banks, foreign services provider shall be in the form of joint venture bank locally incorporated in Indonesia with the\nfollowing requirements :\na. Unbound for new license.\nb. Only financial Institutions are permitted to establish joint venture banks.\n2. The conditions of ownership and the percentage share of ownership as stipulated in the respective shareholder agreement establishing the existing individual joint venture\nbank shall be respected as the basis of ownership of the foreign service provider(s) and their respective Indonesian partner(s). No transfer of ownership shall take place\nwithout the consent of all parties in the joint venture bank\n3. Acquisition of local existing banks through the purchase of shares in the stock exchange is allowed up to 51% of the shares of locally incorporated bank listed in the stock\nexchange.\n4. Foreign bank and joint venture bank may open their offices in the cities of Jakarta, Surabaya, Semarang, Bandung, Medan, Makassar, Denpasar, Batam, Padang, Manado,\nAmbon, Balikpapan, Banda Aceh, and Jayapura.\n5. With respect to the presence of natural persons, no economic need test will apply. A non Indonesian employed as manager or as technical expert shall have at least two\nIndonesian understudies during his/her term.\n6. In addition to the Horizontal Measures, temporary entry will be granted to technical expert(s)/adviser(s) of branch office of the foreign bank and joint venture bank for no\nlonger than 3 (three) months per person for any given year.\n7. A person shall be a “controlling shareholder” in only one bank.\n8. Limitation on national treatment in terms of taxation which is specified in Horizontal Measures is not applied on the Banking Sub-sector\nDefinition :\nA controlling shareholder shall mean a person who beneficially own 10% or more of the equity of interest of a bank or who beneficially own less than 10% of the equity\ninterest of a bank but have the power to control the bank. A person shall be deemed to have control of a bank if such person has the power to name director and/or\ncommissioner of such bank and/or has the power to direct its action.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 22 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Commercial Banking Business', None, None, None], ['(i) Acceptance of deposits and\nother repayable funds from\npublic', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', ''], ['(ii) Lending of all types, including\nconsumer credit, mortgage,\ncredit, factoring and financing\nof commercial transaction.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 23 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(iii) All payment and money\ntransmission services including\ncredit, charge and debit cards,\ntravelers cheques and bankers\ndrafts.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', ''], ['(iv) Guarantees and Commitments', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 24 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(v) Trading for own account or for\naccount of customers, whether\non an exchange, in an over-the\ncounter market or otherwise,\nthe following', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', ''], ['- Money market instruments\n(including cheques, bills,\ncertificates of deposits)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 25 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Foreign exchange', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', ''], ['- Exchange rate and interest\nrate instruments, including\nproducts such as swaps,\nforward rate agreements.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 26 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Transferable securities\nissued in the money\nmarket.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', ''], ['(vi) Cash management, custodial\nand depository services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. Bound only 2 (two) sub branches and 2\n(two) auxiliary offices for foreign\nbank’s branch office\nb. Bound only 2 (two) branches and 2\n(two) sub-branches for joint venture\nbank.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section and General Conditions\non Banking Sub-sector', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a. For foreign bank branch, only executive\nposition can be assumed by expatriates\nwith limitation that at least one of them\nshall be Indonesian national.\nb. For the joint venture bank, only for the\ndirector can be assumed by the expatriates\nin proportion to the ownership sharing.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nSection and General Conditions on Banking\nSub-sector', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 27 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['8. HEALTH RELATED AND SOCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['General conditions on health related and social services :\nCommercial presence of the foreign service provider is permitted only through health institution which is registered in Indonesia and must establish partnership with local\npartner. Establishment limited to the cities of Medan and Surabaya.', None, None, None], ['Hospital services (only for\nspecialistic and super specialistic\nmedical care/more specific than\nspecialistic medical care, provided\nby hospital of more than 300 beds)\n(CPC 9311)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section and\nGeneral Conditions :\n- The hospital shall be managed by\nBoard of Directors chaired by\nIndonesian medical doctor\n- Approval subject to the social\nfunction of hospital services offered\n- The medical services shall be\nprovided by persons with medical\nlicenses issued by Ministry of Health\nand Health professional\norganization/council\n- Foreign health professionals are\nobliged to transfer medical knowledge\nand professional capabilities to\nIndonesian health professional as\nconsultant only\n- A non Indonesian health professional\nemployed as managers or as technical\nexperts shall have at least two\nIndonesian under studies during\nhis/her term\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The health professionals shall be\nIndonesian.\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 28 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Hotel and Restaurant Services', None, None, None], ['Hotels (CPC 64110)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) In Eastern Part of Indonesia,\nBengkulu, Jambi, and Sulawesi 100 % of\ncapital share can be owned by foreign\ninvestor.\n4) Unbound, except for:\na) Top management level in hotel\nbusiness comprised of General Manager,\nFood and Beverage Manager, Resident\nManager\nController, Marketing Director\nb) Highly skilled professional\ncomprised of Executive Chef, Sous Chef\nand Specialty Cook', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a) Higher paid-up capital is required of\nforeign services suppliers than of domestic\nservices suppliers. This measures will be\neliminated in the year 2020\nb) Only 3,4 or 5 starred hotels\nare permitted\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['B. Travel Agent and Tour\nOperator (TA & TO)\n(CPC 74710)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Maximum service providers 30 TA & TO\n4) Unbound except for technical advisor', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Tour operator must be Travel Agent located in\nJakarta and Bali\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 29 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Meal Serving Services with Full\nRestaurant Services\n(CPC 64210)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound, except in certain part of East\nIndonesia (Sulawesi, Papua, Molucas,\nNusa Tenggara) foreign equity\nparticipation is permitted up to 49%\n4) Unbound, except for :\n- Top Management Level\nHighly-Skilled Professional', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Subject to prevailing local government’s\nlaws regarding to the moral or public order\nin accordance with Article XVI (a) of the\nGATS\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['B. Tourist Resorts :\nTourist Resort including :\n- Hotels (3,4, and 5 star)\n- Marinas\n- Golf Courses and other Sport\nfacilities (CPC 96413)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) In eastern part of Indonesia, Bengkulu and\nJambi , 100% of capital share can be\nowned by foreign investor.\n4) Unbound except for Resort Manager.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) a) Higher paid-up capital is required of\nForeign Service suppliers than of domestic\nservice suppliers. These measures will be\neliminated in the year 2020.\nb) Only 3, 4, or 5 starred hotels are permitted\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 30 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Other\nTourism Consultancy Services\n( CPC 91136)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Must be registered to Indonesian Ministry\nof Justice as Indonesian company. In the\ncase of cooperation with a national\ncompany, it is required, to do; Joint\nventure, joint operation and Contract\nmanagement\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['International Hotel Operator\n(CPC 91135)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Must be registered to Indonesian\nMinistry of Justice as Indonesian\ncompany\nIn the case of cooperation with a national\ncompany, it is required to do Contract\nmanagement', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 31 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound, except for:\na) Top management level in hotel\nbusiness comprised of: General\nManager, Food and Beverage\nManager, Resident Manager\nController, Marketing Director\nb) Highly skilled professional comprised\nof Executive Chef, Sous Chef and\nSpecialty Cook', '4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Maritime Transport Services\nInternational Passenger\nTransport Excluding\nCabotage (pillar 1)\n(CPC 7211)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign shipping company may establish\nOwner’s Representative\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '1) Foreign shipping company is obliged to\nappoint Indonesian Shipping Company or\njoint venture shipping company as its general\nagent\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', 'The following services at ports\nare made available to\ninternational maritime transport\nsupplier on reasonable and\nnon-discriminatory terms and\nconditions:\n1. Pilotage;\n2. Towing and tug assistance;\n3. Provisioning and water\nsupply;\n4. Garbage collection and']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 32 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', "ballast waste disposal;\n5. Port captain's services;\n6. Navigation aids;\n7. Shore-based operational\nservices essential to ship\noperation, including\ncommunication, water and\nelectrical supply;\n8. Emergency repair facilities;\nand\n9. Anchorage and berthing\nservices."], ['International Freight\nTransport excluded Cabotage\n(CPC 7212)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign shipping company may establish\nOwner’s Representative\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '1) a. Foreign shipping company is obliged to\nappoint Indonesian Shipping Company or\njoint venture shipping company as its\ngeneral agent\nb. Government’ Cargo\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', "The following services at ports\nare made available to\ninternational maritime transport\nsupplier on reasonable and\nnon-\ndiscriminatory terms and\nconditions:\n1. Pilotage;\n2. Towing and tug assistance;\n3. Provisioning and water\nsupply;\n4. Garbage collection and\nballast waste disposal;\n5. Port captain's services;\n6. Navigation aids;\n7. Shore-based operational"]]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 33 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'services essential to ship\noperation, including\ncommunication, water and\nelectrical supply;\n8. Emergency repair facilities;\nand\n9. Anchorage and berthing\nservices.'], ['Maritime Auxiliary Services\na. Maritime cargo handling\nservices (CPC 741)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) Only through joint venture corporation,\nwith foreign equity share allowable up to\nmaximum 49%\n4) As indicated in the Horizontal Section', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\n4) As indicated in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Rental Vessel without crew\n(CPC 83103)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n4) As indicated in the Horizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Horizontal Section\n4) As indicated in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 34 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Air Transport Services', None, None, None], ['a. Aircraft repair and maintenance\nservices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign services suppliers are\npermitted to establish joint venture\naircraft repair and maintenance\nenterprises in Indonesia, with\nmaximum equity 49%\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', ''], ['b. Computer reservation system\n(CRS)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign CRS services are permitted to\nestablish joint venture enterprises in\nIndonesia, with maximum equity 49%\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', ''], ['c. Selling and marketing', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign General Sales Agent are\npermitted to establish joint venture\nenterprises in Indonesia, with\nmaximum equity 49%\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 35 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['OTHER SERVICES NEC', None, None, None], ["ENERGY SERVICES\nGeneral Condition on energy services:\nIndonesia's schedule of specific commitments on energy services sector is based on 2nd Revised Indonesia Proposal of Energy Services Classification", None, None, None], ['Core analysis and other Lab Test,\nonly for Isotop Analysis\n− According to Indonesia\nProposal of Energy Services\nClassification is under:\n• Isotop Analysis (1.A.2.7.3.)\n− According to WI20 is\nunder: Business Services\non Technical Testing and\nAnalysis Services\n(CPC8076)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound, except for directors and\ntechnical experts', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', ''], ['Geological and\nGeophysical Services, only\nfor Seismic Data\nAcquisition\n− According to Indonesia\nProposal of Energy Services\nClassification is under:\n• Seismic Data Acquisition\n(1A.1.4.1.1.)\n− According to W 120. Seismic\nData Acquisition is under:\nBusiness Services on Subsurface\nSurveying Services (CPC 86752)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound, except for directors and\ntechnical experts', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 36 -
Mode of Supply:          (1) Cross-border supply          (2) Consumption abroad             (3) Commercial presence          (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Liquefaction and Gasification only\nfor Coal\n− According to Indonesia\nProposal of Energy Services\nClassification is under:\n(cid:131) Coal Liquefaction (2_4.4.4.)\n(cid:131) Coal Gasification (2.4.4.5.)\n− According to W120 is under :\nServices Incidental to\nManufacturing (CPC 884)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Joint operation through a representative\noffice in Indonesia\n4) Unbound, except for directors and\ntechnical experts', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As specified in the Horizontal Section\n4) As specified in the Horizontal Section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/INO - 37 -
   ATTACHMENT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA SCHEDULE ON BASIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS  REFERENCE PAPER  Scope  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.    Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.    Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that  (a) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers;  and   (b) cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:   (a) control over essential facilities;  or   (b) use of its position in the market.   1. Competitive safeguards  1.1 Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications   Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  1.2 Safeguards   The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular:  (a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;   (b) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results;  and  (c) not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.   2. Interconnection  2.1 This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and  to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken.  2.2 Interconnection to be ensured   Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided.  (a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; 
    (b) in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided;  and  (c) upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.  2.3 Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations   The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available.  2.4 Transparency of interconnection arrangements   It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer.  2.5 Interconnection:  dispute settlement   A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either:   (a) at any time or   (b) after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known  to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory authority as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously.   3. Universal service  Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.  4. Public availability of licensing criteria   Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available:  (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence  and  (b) the terms and conditions of  individual licences.   The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request.  5. Regulatory Authority   The regulatory Authority is not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.       
   6. Allocation and use of scarce resources  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely and transparent manner. The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
  KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         LAO PDR  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments) 
  LAO PDR- SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS    Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL SECTION\nALL SECTORS INCLUDED IN THIS SCHEDULE', None, None, None], ['Land ownership', '', '3), 4) Non-Lao natural and juridical\npersons are not allowed to own land but\nmay own premises and lease land up to\n75 years.', ''], ['Subsidies and investment incentives', '', '1), 2), 3), 4) Unbound with respect to\nsubsidies, investment incentives and other\nstate support measures, eligibility for\nwhich may be limited to particular\nregions, categories of persons, or\nenterprises.', ''], ['Commercial presence', '3) Foreign individuals or legal entities\nshall be registered their businesses in\naccordance with the Law on Promotion of\nForeign Investment, Enterprise Law and\nother related Laws and Regulations\n3) Unbound for measures related to\npublicly funded services including with\nrespect to national treatment.\n3)NGOs are not covered in this schedule', '3) Foreign investors shall have an\nobligation to provide training, upgrade\nprofessional skills and transfer of\ntechnology, as well as to promote Lao\nnationals to higher skilled and specialized\npositions, including managerial.\n3) Tax measures, generally pertaining to\nsmall and medium enterprises may result\nin a difference of treatment in favour of\nLao services and service suppliers.', ''], ['Movement of natural persons providing\nservices', '4) Unbound, except for measures\naffecting the temporary entry and stay of\nnatural persons who qualify under one of\nthe following categories, and in all cases,\ntotal number of foreign natural persons,\nincluding higher management, of any\nestablishment shall not exceed 10% of the\ntotal staff:', '4) Unbound, except for measures\nconcerning the categories of natural\npersons referred to in the market access\ncolumn. Unbound for all measures\nrelating to social insurance schemes\nincluding inter alia unemployment and\npension benefits.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 2 -
 Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'A. Services sales persons\nA natural person who:\n- enters Lao PDR to be engaged in\nactivities related to representing a\nservices supplier for the purpose of\nnegotiating for the sale of the\nservices of that supplier; and\n- stays in Lao PDR without receiving\nremuneration from sources within\nLao PDR; and\n- does not engage in making direct\nsales to the general public or\nsupplying services.\nThe temporary stay of the services sales\npersons is subject to a maximum duration\nof stay of thirty days.', '', ''], ['', 'B. Intra-Corporate Transferees\nNatural persons who have been employed\nby a juridical person of another Member\noutside Lao PDR for a period of not less\nthan one year immediately preceding the\nrequest for transfer to Lao PDR, who seek\ntemporary entry to provide services\nthrough commercial establishment of that\njuridical person in Lao PDR, who cannot\nbe substituted by Lao nationals, and who\nfall within one of the following\ncategories:\na) Executives: Natural persons within\nan organization who primarily direct the\nmanagement of the organization, exercise\nwide latitude in decision-making, and', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 3 -
  Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "receive only general supervision or\ndirection from higher-level executives,\nthe board of directors, or shareholders of\nthe business. Executives would not\ndirectly perform tasks related to the actual\nsupply of a service or services of the\norganization.\nb) Managers: Natural persons who\npossess knowledge at an advanced level\nof expertise or proprietary knowledge of a\njuridical entity product, service, research,\nequipment, techniques, or management,\nand who primarily direct the organization\nor a department of the organization;\nsupervise and control the work of other\nsupervisory, professional or managerial\nemployees; have the authority to hire and\nfire or recommend hiring, firing or other\npersonnel actions; and exercise\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. They do not include first-line\nsupervisors, unless the employees\nsupervised are professionals, nor do they\ninclude employees who primarily perform\ntasks necessary for the supply of the\nservice.\nc) Specialists: Natural persons within\nan organization who possess knowledge\nat an advanced level of continued\nexpertise and who possess proprietary\nknowledge of the organization's services,\nresearch equipment, techniques, or\nmanagement and where there are\nshortages of Lao nationals with requisite\nskills.", '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 4 -
 Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'For the natural persons in the categories\ndefined under intra-corporate transferees,\ntemporary residency and work permit will\nbe issued for six months which may be\nrenewed for up to one year as long as\nconditions indicated for each category are\nsatisfied.', '', ''], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services', None, None, None], ['(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) A juridical entity must be established\nthrough a joint venture with a Lao\nservice supplier.\n4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Urban Planning and Landscape\nArchitecture Services\n(CPC 86741- 86742)', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Foreign architectural and\nengineering services suppliers shall\nbe registered in the following forms:\n- A joint-venture with domestic\npartner(s)\n- A wholly foreign-owned\nenterprise\n- A Branch or Representative\na) Foreign equity not less than 30%\n(for joint venture)\nb) not applied for public funded and\nforeign granted projects\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in\nHorizontal Section\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 5 -
  Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'horizontal Section', 'Horizontal Section', ''], ['B. Other Business Services', None, None, None], ['Advertising Services (CPC 871)', '1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) shall be registered in accordance with\nthe Law on Investment Promotion\nand concerned laws and regulation\n(4) unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) as indicated in the horizontal section\n(4) unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Sewage Services\n(CPC 9401)\nRefuse Disposal Services\n(CPC 9402)\nSanitation and Similar Services\n(CPC 9403)\nNature and Landscape Protection\nServices\n(CPC 9406)', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Shall be registered in the forms:\na) Joint venture, with minimum 30%\nforeign equity share\nb) 100% foreign-owned enterprise\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Pre-erection work at construction site\n(CPC 511)\nConstruction work for civil engineering\n(CPC 513)\nAssembly and erection of prefabricated\nconstructions\n(CPC 514)\nInstallation and assembly work\n(CPC 516)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) A juridical entity must be established\nthrough a joint venture with a Lao\nservice supplier.\n(4) Unbound, except for intra-corporate\ntransferees as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section\n(4) Unbound, except for intra-corporate\ntransferees as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 6 -
 Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', ''], ['Construction work for buildings\n(CPC 512)\nSpecial trade construction\n(CPC 515)\nBuilding completion and finishing work\n(CPC 517)\nRental services related to equipment for\nconstruction or demolition of building\nworks with operator\n(CPC 518)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n2) None\n3) A juridical entity must be established\nthrough a joint venture with a Lao\nservice supplier who is a member of\nthe Association of Lao Architects and\nCivil Engineers (ALACE).\n4) Unbound, except for intra-corporate\ntransferees as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n2) None\n3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n4) Unbound, except for intra-corporate\ntransferees as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['PRIVATE EDUCATIONAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Technical and vocational secondary\neducation services (CPC 9223)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a. Joint venture, with minimum 30%\nforeign equity share\nb. 100% foreign-owned enterprise\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', ''], ['Higher education services (CPC 923)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a. Joint venture, with minimum 30%\nforeign equity share\nb. 100% foreign-owned enterprise\nc. approved by the Government\n(4) Unbound', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['FINANCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 7 -
  Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Banking and other financial services (excl. insurance)\nAccess by foreign services suppliers and the provision of financial services may be subject to measures adopted for prudential reasons.', None, None, None], ['Acceptance of deposits and other\nrepayable funds from the public\n(CPC 81115-81119)', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Lending of all types, incl. Consumer\ncredit, Mortgage credit, factoring and\nfinancing of commercial transaction\n(CPC 8113)', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) None, except for mortgage factoring\nuntil necessary regulatory framework\nis in place\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Unbound\n(2) Unbound\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Guarantees and Commitments\n(CPC 81199**)', '(1) Borrowing funds from abroad, issuing\nletters of guarantee and commitments\nshall be approved by the Bank of the\nLao PDR.\n(2) Borrowing funds from abroad, issuing\nletters of guarantee and commitments\nshall be approved by the Bank of the\nLao PDR.\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) Borrowing funds from abroad,\nissuing letters of guarantee and\ncommitments shall be approved by\nthe Bank of the Lao PDR.\n(2) Borrowing funds from abroad,\nissuing letters of guarantee and\ncommitments shall be approved by\nthe Bank of the Lao PDR.\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for executives and\nmanagers as per conditions in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Hotel lodging services\n(CPC 641-643)\nBeverage serving services without', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section, and standard\nrequired for a hotel to be developed', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 8 -
 Modes of supply:             1)    Cross-border supply         2)    Consumption abroad           3)    Commercial presence          4)    Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['entertainment\n(CPC 64310)', 'is 3-stars or higher\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Section', ''], ['Meal serving services with full restaurant\nservices (CPC 64210)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 9 -  
  LIST OF MFN EXEMPTIONS  
[['Sector or sub-sector', 'Description of the measure indicating its\ninconsistency with Article II', 'Country or countries to which the\nmeasures applies', 'Intended\nduration', 'Conditions creating the need for the\nexemption'], ['Audiovisual services\nProduction,\ndistribution and\nprojection of\ncinematographic\nworks and television\nprogrammes', 'Measures based upon government-to-government\nframework agreements, and plurilateral\nagreements, on co-production of audiovisual\nworks, which confer National Treatment of\naudiovisual works covered by these agreements,\nin particular in relation to distribution, access to\nbroadcasting transmission, and access to funding.', 'All countries with whom cultural\ncooperation may be desirable', 'Indefinite', 'These programmes aim at preserving and\npromoting the cultural identity of countries\nwith which Lao PDR has a long-standing\ncultural link.'], ['Internal waterways\ntransport services', 'Preferential access granted to services and\nservices suppliers originating in countries sharing\naccess to Mekong river basin.', 'Parties to the International\nFramework Mekong Committee', 'Indefinite', 'The commitment of parties to achieve free\nnavigation and develop regional Mekong\nriver basin.'], ['Land transport', 'Facilitation of freight and passenger\ntransportation and transit transport agreements', 'Parties to the Greater Mekong Sub-\nregion agreement', 'Indefinite', 'To facilitate tourism and trade, including\nfreight and passenger transportation\nbetween the countries in the region and\npromote multimodal transport'], ['Legal services', 'All measures pertaining to the provision of legal\nservices in Lao PDR', 'Any countries', 'Indefinite', 'To maintain established preference.'], ['Computer Reservation\nSystem', 'On the provision of the bilateral Air Service\nAgreement', 'All countries with whom Laos\nsigned agreement on bilateral air\nservices, currently they are:\n- Indonesia\n- Malaysia\n- Cambodia\n- Singapore\n- Myanmar\n- Vietnam\n- China\n- Thailand', 'Expiry date or\ntermination of\nthe bilateral\nagreements\non air\nservices. This\nwill be\nreviewed for\npurpose of\nfurther\ndevelopment', ''], ['Auditing Services', 'Base on bilateral agreement', 'Countries in which related services\ncan be supplied by Lao nationals.', 'Indefinite', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 10 -
[['', '', '', '', ''], ['Publishing\nNewspaper', 'Permission granting has to be based on bilateral\nagreement', 'All countries', 'Indefinite', ''], ['Banking and other\nfinancial services', 'Measures affecting the supply of banking and\nother financial services to be granted on a\nbilateral favorable basis with countries Laos has\nagreement', 'All countries', 'Indefinite', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/LAO - 11 -     
                       KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         MALAYSIA  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)             
                       MALAYSIA - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS INCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE UNLESS OTHERWISE\nINDICATED', '3) Acquisition, Mergers and Take-overs\nThe acquisition of assets or interests of\nMalaysian companies and businesses,\nmergers or take-overs requires approval\nand apply to the following:\na) the acquisition of the voting rights of\na Malaysian corporation by any single\nforeign interest or associated group of 15\nper cent or more, or an aggregate foreign\ninterest of 30 per cent or more or\nexceeding RM10 million in value;\nb) any proposed acquisition of any\nassets or interests by any means which\nwill result in ownership or control passing\nto foreign interest; and\nc) control of Malaysian corporations\nthrough any form of joint-venture\nagreement, management agreement,\ntechnical assistance agreement or other\narrangements.\nApproval is normally granted. However it\nmay be denied in circumstances where the\nproposed investment conflicts with the\ninterest of the State.', '3) Land, Property and Real Estate\nApproval may be denied if the acquisition,\ndisposal or dealing of land or any interest\nin land, property and real estate is\nundertaken for speculative or non-\nproductive purpose or for purposes which\nmay conflict with the interest of the State.\nIncentives/Preferences\nIncentives are limited to eligible\nMalaysian-owned corporations engaged in\nservice sectors promoted by the\nGovernment.\nAny measure and special preference\ngranted to Bumiputera, Bumiputera status\ncompanies, trust companies and\ninstitutions set up to meet the objectives of\nthe New Economic Policy (NEP) and the\nNational Development Policy (NDP) shall\nbe unbound.\nCorporations in which the Government has an\ninterest shall, in acquiring services, give first\nconsideration to service suppliers in which the\nGovernment has an interest. This\nrequirement does not prevent the acquisition\nof services from other service suppliers where\ntheir services are competitive in terms of\nprice, quality and delivery.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 2 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', "4) Unbound except for measures affecting\nthe entry and temporary stay of natural\npersons defined below:\n1. Intra-corporate Transferees\na) senior managers being persons within an\norganization having proprietary information\nof the organization and who exercise wide\nlatitude in decision making relating to the\nestablishment, control and operation of the\norganization being directly responsible to the\nCEO and receive only general supervision or\ndirection from the board of directors or\npartners of the organization; and\nb) two specialists or experts per organization\nbeing persons within the organization who\npossess knowledge at an advanced level of\ncontinued expertise and who possess\nproprietary knowledge of the organization's\nnew service products and technology,\nresearch equipment and techniques or\nmanagement. Additional specialists or experts\nmay be allowed subject to market test and the\ntraining of Malaysians through an acceptable\ntraining programme in the relevant services\nsector or sub sector:\nProvided that such persons are employees of\nthe foreign service supplier and have been in\nthe employment of that foreign service\nsupplier for a period of not less than one year\nimmediately preceding the date of their\napplication for a work permit and he is to\nserve in at least a similar capacity.", '4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 3 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', "2. Others\na) specialists or experts being persons who\npossess knowledge at an advanced level of\ncontinued expertise and who possess\nproprietary knowledge of the organizations'\nproducts and services subject to market test\nand the employment of Malaysians as\ncounterparts and/or training of Malaysians\nthrough acceptable training programmes in\nthe relevant services sector or sub sector;\nb) professionals being persons who possess\nnecessary academic credentials, professional\nqualifications, experience and/or expertise\nwhich have been duly recognized by the\nprofessional bodies in Malaysia and registered\nwith those respective professional bodies; and\nc) business visitors being persons not based\nwithin Malaysia, receiving no remuneration\nfrom a source located within Malaysia, who\nhave been employed for at least one year by a\nforeign service supplier, whose entry and\ntemporary stay is for the purposes of\nnegotiating for the sale of services or entering\ninto agreements to sell services for that\nservice supplier and who will not engage in\ndirect sales to the general public.", '', ''], ['', '3) Entry and stay of natural persons\ndefined in categories 1 a) and b) and 2 a) and\nb) shall not exceed a total of five years. For\ncategory 2 c), the period of stay shall not\nexceed a total of 90 days', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 4 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS1', None, None, None], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services', None, None, None], ['Legal Services\n(CPC 8619)\ncovering advisory and consultancy\nservices relating only to home country\nlaws, international law and offshore\ncorporation laws of Malaysia', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a corporation\nincorporated in the Federal Territory of\nLabuan.\nLegal services shall only be supplied to\noffshore corporations established in the\nFederal Territory of Labuan.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', ''], [None, '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', None], ['Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping\nservices\n(CPC862)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally registered\npartnership with Malaysian\naccountants or Malaysian accounting\nfirms and aggregate foreign interests', '(1) None but subject to domestic\nregulations.\n(2) None but subject to domestic\nregulations.\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 5 -                                                      
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'shall not exceed 40 per cent.', '', '4) The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the service for the\npurposes of registration with the\nprofessional bodies will be\nconducted in the English language.'], [None, '(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section. In respect of 1(b),\nadditional 2 specialists/experts for each\nfirm.', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', None], ['Taxation Services\n(CPC863 / 8630)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally registered\npartnership or private limited company\nwith Malaysian authorised tax\nagents/firms and aggregate foreign\ninterests in the partnership shall not\nexceed 30 per cent.\n2 specialists/experts for each\n(4) institution, subject to registration as a\ntax agent under Section 153 of the\nIncome Tax Act and fulfilment of\nresidency requirements. Entry shall be\nlimited to maximum period of two\nyears, subject to domestic regulations.', '(1) Taxation services must be\nauthenticated by an authorised tax\nagent in Malaysia.\n(2) Taxation services must be\nauthenticated by an authorised tax\nagent in Malaysia.\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', '4) The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the services for\nthe purposes of registration with\nthe professional bodies will be\nconducted in the English language.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 6 -      
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], [None, '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a) Architectural services may be\nsupplied only by natural person;\nb) For multi–disciplinary practices\n(Architecture, Engineering and/or\nQuantity Surveying), foreign equity\nup to a maximum of ten per cent for\njoint ventures by professionals who\nare registered in the country of\norigin. Foreign Directorship is not\nallowed.\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section and, in respect of\n2b), only an architect who is a\nconsultant to a project in collaboration\nwith a Malaysian Professional\nArchitect for wholly foreign funded\nprojects.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a) None\nb) Unbound\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', '(1) For Architectural Services\nconsumed in Malaysia, it must be\nauthenticated by a licensed\nProfessional Architect in\nMalaysia.\n(2) For Architectural Services\nconsumed in Malaysia, it must be\nauthenticated by a licensed\nProfessional Architect in\nMalaysia.\n(3)a) For Architectural Services\nconsumed in Malaysia, it must be\nauthenticated by a licensed\nProfessional Architect in\nMalaysia.\n(4) The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the services for\nthe purposes of registration with\nthe professional bodies will be\nconducted in the English language.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 7 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)\ncovering:\n(CPC 86721-7, CPC 867219)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a) Engineering services may be\nsupplied only by natural person.\nb) For multi–disciplinary practices\n(Architecture, Engineering and/or\nQuantity Surveying), foreign equity up\nto a maximum of ten per cent for joint\nventures by professionals who are\nregistered in the country of origin.\nForeign Directorship is not allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal sector and in respect of 2 b),\nsubject to temporary registration for a\nperiod of one year per temporary\nregistration', '(1) Engineering services must be\nauthenticated by a registered\nprofessional Engineer in Malaysia\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Engineering services must be\nauthenticated by a registered\nprofessional engineer in Malaysia.', '(4) The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the service for the\npurpose of registration with the\nprofessional bodies will be\nconducted in English language.'], ['Integrated engineering services\n(CPC 8673)\ncovering:\n(CPC 86731-3, CPC 86739)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) Integrated engineering services must\nbe authenticated by the relevant\nregistered professionals in Malaysia\n(2) Integrated engineering services must\nbe authenticated by the relevant\nregistered professionals in Malaysia', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 8 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both for the\npurpose of services contract awarded\nin Malaysia.\nThe aggregate foreign shareholding in\nthe joint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent\nEstablishment of such joint-venture\ncorporation is only for a duration\nnecessary to complete the services\ncontract\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section and in respect of 2\nb), for a period of up to one year or the\nduration necessary to complete the\nservices contract', '(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', '(4) The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the service for the\npurpose of registration with the\nprofessional bodies will be\nconducted in English language.'], ['', None, None, ''], ['Landscaping services, covering the\nprovision of advisory, planning and\ndesigning services for the aesthetic\nlandscaping of golf courses and theme\nparks\n(CPC 86742*)', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 9 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Malaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and the\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['B. Computer and Related Services\nConsultancy services related to the\ninstallation of computer hardware\n(CPC 841)\nSoftware implementation service\n(CPC 842)\nData Processing Services\n(843)\nData base services\n(CPC 844 / 84400)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['C. Research and Development Services\nResearch and experimental development\nservices on social sciences and\nhumanities\n(CPC 8520 except 85203 and 85204)\n.', None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 10 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'aggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['C. Research and Development Services\nResearch and experimental development\nservices on economics\n(CPC 85202)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian\ncontrolled corporations or both and the\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint venture corporation shall not\nexceed 35%\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services without\nOperator\nRelating to ships exclude cabotage and\noffshore trades\n(CPC 83103)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or Malaysian-controlled\ncorporation acting as an agent', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 11 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Relating to aircraft\n(CPC 83104)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', ''], [None, '(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or Malaysian-controlled\ncorporation acting as an agent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', None], ['Leasing or rental services relating to\nconstruction and mining equipment and\nindustrial plant and equipment\n(CPC 83107*)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or Malaysian-controlled\ncorporation acting as an agent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['F. OTHER SERVICES\nAdvertising services\n(CPC8711, 8712, 8719)', None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 12 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'controlled corporations or both and the\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent\nAdvertisement through electronic\nmedia\nAdvertisement must have at least 80\nper cent local content and be made in\nMalaysia\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Market research and public opinion\npolling services\n(CPC 864)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporations at least exceed 30\nper cent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Management Consulting Services\na) covering advisory, guidance and\noperational assistance services\nconcerning management of the', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 13 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['transmission of non-conventional\nenergy (CPC8650*)\nb) covering advisory, guidance and\noperational assistance on environmental\nmanagement services including risk\nassessment services\n(CPC8650*)', 'joint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation is at least 30 per\ncent', '', ''], [None, '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', None], ['c) Covering advisory and guidance in\nthe field of pharmacy as follows:\n- Basic material manufacturing\nconsultancy in the manufacture\nof drugs in raw material form;\n- New systems of drug delivery;\n- Biotechnology-new techniques\nfor influencing the process and\nproducts of living cells;\n- New techniques in drug\ndevelopment and methods of\nproducing drugs and\nvaccine;and\n- Vaccine production.\n(CPC 8650*)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation is at least 30 per\ncent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 (a)\nand (b) and 2 (a) and (c) in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['d) covering advisory and guidance on\nInternational Value-Added Network\nServices, rural telecom development\nand human resource development in', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 14 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['telecommunications\n(CPC8650*)', '(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation is at least 30 per\ncent', '(3) None', ''], [None, '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 (a)\nand (b) and 2 (a) and (c) in the\nhorizontal section', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], [None, None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 15 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Services Incidental to Agriculture and\nFishing\nCovering only specialised consultancy,\nadvisory and operational assistance on\ncrop and fisheries management,\nincluding, value-added services such as\npreservation techniques, etc.\n(CPC 881*, 882*)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation is at least 30 per\ncent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], [None, None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 16 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'joint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\nBumiputera shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation is at least 30 per\ncent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Translation and interpretation services\n(CPC87905)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Supplied by natural person\n(4) No limitation subject to domestic\nregulation', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) No limitation subject to domestic\nregulation', ''], ['Student Placement Services, covering\npromoting, recruiting and facilitating\nstudents for studies outside Malaysia\n(CPC87909)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 17 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Operational Headquarters (OHQ)\nServices\ncovering general management and\nadministration, business planning,\nprocurement of raw materials, technical\nsupport, marketing control and sales\npromotion planning, training and\npersonnel management, provision of\ntreasury and fund management services\nand research and development carried\nout by a company in Malaysia for its\noffices and related companies outside\nMalaysia. Services rendered by OHQ\ncompanies are limited to establishments\nengaged in business related to the\nfollowing sectors or sub-sectors: Sea\nand air services, Communication\nservices, Tourism services, Professional\nand Consulting services\n(CPC87909)', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\nwholly foreign-owned company.\nA foreign-owned company, a regional\noffice of a foreign-owned company\nwhich transfers its OHQ services to\nMalaysia, a regional office of a\nforeign-owned company established in\nMalaysia and a foreign-owned\ncompany which is already incorporated\nin Malaysia may seek to qualify as an\nOHQ.\nOHQ must operate in Malaysia and\nfulfil the following criteria:\na) carry out at least 3 of the OHQ\nservice activities;\nb) have a sizeable network of\ncompanies outside Malaysia which\nincludes the parent company or its\nhead office and related companies;\nc) have a well established foreign-\nowned company which is sizeable in\nterms of assets and employees;\nd) have a network of companies with\nsubstantial number of qualified\nexecutives, professionals, technical and', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 18 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'other supporting personnel;\ne) be able to make decisions\nindependently without consultations\nwith its head office or parent company\nlocated outside Malaysia;\nf) be able to contribute to the\nMalaysian economy by:\ni) using services such as legal,\naccounting etc. provided by\nMalaysians;\nii) creating job opportunities for\nMalaysians\niii) enabling greater inflow of\nforeign funds\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES\nTelecommunication Services', None, None, None], ['Basic Telecommunications\n1. Voice service (wired or wireless)\n(CPC 7521)', None, None, 'Pro-competition regulatory\nprinciple in respect of\ninterconnection arrangement and\ncompetition (Refer to Annex I)']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 19 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['2. Packet-switched data transmission\nservices, including frame-relay services\n(CPC 7523)\n3. Circuit switched data transmission\nservices (CPC 7523)\n4. Facsimile Service(CPC 7521**, CPC\n7529**)\n5. Private leased circuit service (CPC\n7522**& CPC 7523**)', '(3) a) Only through acquisition of shares\nof existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers\nb) Foreign shareholding of up to 49\npercent in these service providers is\nallowed\n(4) Unbound', '(3) None\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['6. Paging services (CPC 75291)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', ''], [None, '(3) Only through locally incorporated JV\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysia controlled corporations\nor\nonly through acquisitions of shares of\nexisting appropriately licensed service\nproviders\nForeign shareholding of up to 49\npercent in these service providers is\nallowed.\n(4) Unbound', '(3) None\n(4) Unbound', None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 20 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Other telecommunication services\n7. Domestic/ International satellite\nservices and satellite links/capacities\n(inclusive of mobile satellite)\n8. Satellite earth station\n9. International switching and other\ninternational gateway\n10. Mobile services analogue/digital\ncellular\n11. Trunked radio services\n12. Video transport services', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) a) Only through acquisition of shares\nof existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers\nb) Foreign shareholding of up to 49\npercent in these service providers is\nallowed\n(4) Unbound', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound', 'Pro-competition regulatory\nprinciple in respect of\ninterconnection arrangement and\ncompetition (Refer to Annex I)'], [None, None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 21 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'two years, subject to domestic\nregulations.', '', ''], ['Voice telephone services\n(CPC7521)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through locally incorporated JV\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysian controlled corporations;\nor\nOnly through acquisitions of shares of\nan existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers.\nForeign shareholding of up to 49 per\ncent in these service providers is\nallowed.\n(4) Unbound', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['Mobile telephone service\n(CPC 75213)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through locally incorporated JV\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysian controlled corporations;\nor\nOnly through acquisitions of shares of\nan existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 22 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Foreign shareholding of up to 49 per\ncent in these service providers is\nallowed.\n(4) Unbound', '(4) Unbound', ''], ['Telegraph services\n(CPC7522)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', ''], [None, '(3) Only through locally incorporated JV\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysian controlled corporations;\nor\nOnly through acquisitions of shares of\nan existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers.\nForeign shareholding of up to 49 per\ncent in these service providers is\nallowed.\n(4) Unbound', '(3) None\n(4) Unbound', None], ['Telex services\n(CPC7523)', None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 23 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(3) Only through a JV corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian\ncontrolled corporations; or\nOnly through acquisitions of shares of\nan existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers.\nForeign shareholding of up to 49 per\ncent in these service providers is\nallowed\n(4) Unbound', '(3) None\n(4) None', ''], ['Mobile data services\n(CPC7523)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through locally incorporated JV\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysian controlled corporations;\nor\nOnly through acquisitions of shares of\nan existing appropriately licensed\nservice providers.\nForeign shareholding of up to 49 per\ncent in these service providers is\nallowed.\n(4) Two specialists/experts for each\ninstitution, for a maximum period of', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 24 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'two years, subject to domestic\nregulations.', 'market access.', ''], ['Audiovisual Services\nMotion picture, video tape and audio\nrecording distribution services\n(CPC96113)', '(1) Commercial presence is required\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and the\naggregate foreign shareholding shall\nnot exceed 30 per cent\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(1) Unbound\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Broadcasting services\ncovering transmission from foreign\nbroadcast station of foreign broadcast\nmatter from foreign territory through\ntelevision or radio\n(CPC7524*)', '(1) 20 per cent of total screening time; and\ndubbing into the national language\nmay be required\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(4) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility', '(1) Unbound for government channel\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(4) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility', ''], ['CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Pre-erection Work at Construction Site\n(CPC 511)', None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 25 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Construction Work for Buildings\n(CPC 512)\nConstruction Work for Civil\nEngineering\n(CPC5 13)\nAssembly and Erection of Prefabricated\nConstructions\n(CPC 514)\nSpecial Trade Construction\n(CPC 515)\nInstallation Work (CPC516)\nBuilding Completion and Finishing\nWork (CPC517)', '(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally incorporated\njoint venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregated foreign shareholding in the\njoint venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['DISTRIBUTION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Wholesale, and Retail Trade Businesses\n(CPC 6111, 6113, 6121, 6221, 6222,\n6223, 6224, 6225, 6226, 6227, 6228,\n631, 632)\nexcept CPC 613 (petroleum products)', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None\n(3) Entry is limited to:\ni) Legal entity\nThe foreign company involved in\nwholesale and retail businesses must\nbe incorporated locally under the\nCompanies Act 1965;\nii) Equity Structure\nThe aggregate of foreign equity shall\nnot exceed 30%, while local\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporation should be 70% out of\nwhich 30% must be for Bumiputras.', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 26 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', "iii) Minimum Capital Requirement\nMinimum capital investment in terms\nof company's shareholding funds\nshould be:\n• RM 50 million for hypermarkets.\n• RM 20 million for departmental\nstores.\n• RM 25 million for superstores.\n• For other types of distributive\nbusiness, the minimum capital\nrequirement will be RM 1 million.\n(4) One (1) key post and a maximum of\nten (10) time posts per company\nsubject to the following conditions:\na) Key Post\nThe person applying for the post must\nhold or has held a management\nposition in the company's wholesale or\nretail business outside Malaysia for a\nperiod of not less than 3 years\npreceding the date of application for\nthe work permit.\nb) Time Post\nThese posts are for executives or\nexperts who must possess the\nnecessary qualification and practical\nexperience including holding\nequivalent or related position in the\ncompany's business for not less than 3\nyears and subject to the condition that\nMalaysians are trained to eventually", '(4) Unbound except indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 27 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'take over the post concerned through\nan acceptable training programme.', '', ''], ['HEALTHCARE SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Medical and Dental Services\nMedical speciality services\n(CPC93122)\ncovering forensic medicine, nuclear\nmedicine, geriatrics, microvascular\nsurgery, neurosurgery, cardiothorasic\nsurgery, plastic surgery, clinical\nimmunology and oncology,\ntraumatology, anaesthesiology,\nintensive care specialist, child\npsychiatry and physical medicine', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Medical specialty services may be\nsupplied only by a natural person', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', 'The qualifying examination to\ndetermine the competence and\nability to supply the service will\nbe conducted in English language.'], [None, '(4) Unbound, except indicated in 2 a) in\nthe horizontal section', '(4) None other than:\n- practice only in private hospitals of at\nleast 70 beds;\n- practice to be only at a specified\nlocation and a change of location\nrequires approval; and\n- the setting up of individual or joint\ngroup practices is not permitted.', None], ['B. Health and Social Related\nPrivate hospital services\n(CPC 93110*)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Economic needs test; Only through a\nlocally incorporated joint-venture\ncorporation with Malaysian individuals\nor Malaysian-controlled corporations\nor both and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporations shall not exceed 40 per', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Establishment of feeder outpatient\nclinics is not permitted', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 28 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'cent; and\nThe joint-venture corporation shall\noperate a hospital with a minimum of\n100 beds.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['EDUCATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Other Higher Education Services\nProvided by privately funded higher\neducation institutions excluding private\nhigher education institutions with\nGovernment equity or that receive\ngovernment assistance (CPC 92390)\nAdult education services provided by\nprivately funded education institutions\nexcluding private education institutions\nwith Government equity or that receive\ngovernment assistance (CPC 924)', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 29 - 
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\n1(a) and 2 (c) of the horizontal section\nand as below:\nLecturers and experts\n(a) 10 lecturers and/or experts but not\nmore that 20% of lecturers\nemployed in an educational\ninstitution who possess the\nnecessary qualifications, knowledge\ncredentials and/or experience.\n(b) 2 professionals being persons who\npossess necessary professional\nqualifications, industry and/or who\nare employed on the basis of their\nexpertise in an educational\ninstitution.', 'institutions with government equity or\ncitizens/ permanent residents.\n(4) Unbound expect as listed in the market\naccess column.', '(a) courses deemed important to\nattain Malaysia’s educational\nobjectives.\n(b) potential to generate export\nrevenues.'], ['TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 30 - A. Hotel and Restaurant Services (CPC 64110)  Hotels, tourist and restaurant services, covering the management and operation of hotels or resorts including outlets which may not necessarily include ownership of such property. 
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', None, None, None], ['Hotel, tourist resort and restaurant\nservices\ncovering the management and operation\nof hotels or resorts, including outlets\nwhich may not necessarily include\nownership of such properties\n(CPC 641, 642, 643)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', ''], [None, '(3) a. Entry for service activities under\nCPC 641, 642, 643 is permitted only\nthrough a locally incorporated joint-\nventure corporation with Malaysian\nindividuals or Malaysian-controlled\ncorporations or both and aggregate\nforeign shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation shall not exceed 30\nper cent;\nb. For CPC 64110 covering 4 & 5 star\nestablishments, only through joint\nventure with Malaysian individuals or\nMalaysian-controlled corporations or\nboth and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporation shall not exceed 35 %.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection', '(3) a. None\nb. None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', None], ['Travel Agencies and Tour Operators', None, None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 31 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Services\n(CPC 7471)', '(2) None\n(3) a. Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent; and\nEstablishment of another office\nrequires additional licence.\nb. For inbound travel only, joint-\nventure with Malaysian individuals or\nMalaysian-controlled corporations or\nboth and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporation shall not exceed 35 %.\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in 1 (a) in\nthe horizontal section.', '(2) None\n(3) a. None\nb. For inbound travel only, joint-\nventure with Malaysian individuals or\nMalaysian-controlled corporations or\nboth and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporation shall not exceed 35 %.\n(4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access.', ''], ['D. Other\nConvention Centre\n(CPC 87909)\n(Convention and exhibition', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 32 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['management services covering the\nprovision of planning, organisational,\nmanagement and marketing services for\nconventions and other similar events)', '(3) a. Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent.\nb. For Convention Centres with over\n3,000 seating capacity, only through\njoint venture with Malaysian\nindividuals or Malaysian-controlled\ncorporations or both and aggregate\nforeign shareholding in the joint-\nventure corporation shall not exceed 35\n%.\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in 1 (a)\nand (b) and 2 (a) and (c) in the\nhorizontal section.', '(3) a. None\nb. None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access.', ''], ['RECREATIONAL, CULTURAL AND SPORTING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Other entertainment services\n(CPC96191, 96192, 96194)\nTheme Parks\n(part of CPC 96194)\n(A family based recreational\narea/amusement centre which may\nconsist of rides, mechanical and/or', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 33 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['high-tech simulation equipment with\nvarious kinds of amusement facilities\nbuilt around a theme or several themes.\nActivities to be offered will contain\nelements of entertainment and\nadventure. The concept of th park can\neither be outdoor or indoor or a\ncombination of both)', '(3) a. Entertainment services may be\nsupplied only by a natural person.\nb. For theme parks (part of CPC\n96194), only through joint venture\nwith Malaysian individuals or\nMalaysian-controlled corporations or\nboth and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in the joint-venture\ncorporation shall not exceed 35%.\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in 1 a)\nand b) and 2 a) and c) in the horizontal\nsection.', '(3) a. None\nb. None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access\nParticipation of Malaysian entertainers/\nartistes may be required based on the\nguidelines of the relevant Ministry', ''], ['Sports events management services\n(CPC96411, 96412)', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a Malaysian-controlled\ncorporation acting as the local sponsor\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in 2 a) in\nthe horizontal section', '(1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', None], ['TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 34 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['A. Maritime Transport Services\nInternational passenger/freight\ntransportation services\n(Services excludes cabotage and\ngovernment cargo)\n• Passenger transportation (CPC\n7211)\n• Freight transportation (CPC\n7212)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally-incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 49 per cent (foreign equity).\nMalaysian registered vessels\nTo register a vessel in Malaysia, the\nfollowing conditions must be met:\n1) Owner of that vessel must be a\nMalaysian citizen or corporation\nincorporated in Malaysia;\n2) Majority shareholding to be held by\nMalaysians;\n3) Majority of the board of directors to\nbe Malaysians; and\n4) Principal place of business to be in\nMalaysia.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section. Ship crew is\npermitted to disembark only for', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', "The following services at the port\nare made available to international\nmaritime transport suppliers on\nreasonable and non-discriminatory\nterms and conditions:\n1) Pilotage\n2) Towing and tug assistance\n3) Provisioning, fuelling and\nwatering\n4) Garbage collection and ballast\nwaste disposal\n5) Port Captain's services\n6) Navigation aids\n7) Shore-based operational\nservices essential to ship\noperations, including\ncommunications, water and\nelectrical supplies\n8) Emergency repair facilities\n9) Anchorage, berth and berthing\nservices"]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 35 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'duration of berth.', '', ''], ['Rental of cargo vessels with crew for\ninternational shipping\n(CPC 7213)\nRental of cargo Vessels without crew\n(Bareboat Charter) for international\nshipping (CPC 83103)\n(Relating to ships exclude cabotage and\noffshore trades)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally-incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 49 per cent (foreign equity).\n(4) Unbound, except ships crew (for vessel\nwith crew) is permitted to disembark\nonly for duration of berth subject to\napplicable domestic regulations.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['F. Supporting services for maritime\ntransport\nVessel salvage and refloating services\n(CPC74540)\n(except on inland waters)', '(1) None\n(2) None', '(1) None\n(2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 36 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'joint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 49 per cent (foreign equity).\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access.', ''], ['Maritime agency services\n(Covering marketing and sales of\nmaritime transport and related services\nand acting on behalf of the companies\norganising the call of the ship or taking\nover cargoes when required)\n(CPC 7454*)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally-incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 49 per cent\n(4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['Maintenance and repair vessels\n(CPC 8868**)\n(these are limited to businesses related\nto maintenance and repair of ocean\ngoing vessels at anchor or alongside and\nmaintenance and repair of local vessels)', '(1) Unbound (due to the lack of technical\nfeasibility)', '(1) Unbound (due to the lack of technical\nfeasibility)', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 37 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Foreign equity allowable up to\nmaximum of 49 per cent.\n(4) Unbound, except, as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments.', '(4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access.', ''], ['H. Services Auxiliary to All\nModes of Transport\n(Under revised list 7480)\nMaritime freight forwarding services\n(Consist of organizing and monitoring\nshipment operations on behalf of\nshippers, through the procurement of\ntransport and related services,\npreparation of documentation and\nprovision of business information)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a representative office,\nregional office or locally incorporated\njoint venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian\ncontrolled corporations or both.\nForeign equity allowable up to\nmaximum of 49 per cent.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None\n(4) Unbound, except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under\nmarket access', ''], ['AIR TRANSPORT', None, None, None], ['a) Selling and marketing of air\ntransport services\n(Opportunities for the air carrier\nconcerned to sell and market freely\nits air transport services including\nall aspects of marketing such as\nmarket research, advertising and\ndistribution. The activities do not', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 38 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['include the pricing of air transport\nservices nor the applicable\nconditions).', '', '', ''], ['b) Computer reservation system\nservices\n(Services provided by computerised\nsystems that contain information\nabout air carriers’ schedules,\navailability, fares and fare rules,\nthrough which reservations can be\nmade or tickets may be issued.', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['( c ) Aircraft Repair and Maintenance\nServices\n(such activities when undertaken on an\naircraft or a part thereof while it is\nwithdrawn from service and does not\ninclude so-called line maintainence)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Unbound\n(4) Unbound', ''], ['OTHER SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Skills training services\ncovering the provision of training for\ntechnical, supervisory and production\nrelated functional levels in new and\nemerging technologies as follows:\n1) automated manufacturing\ntechnology;\n2) advanced materials technology;\n3) biotechnology;\n4) electronics;\n5) information technology; and\n6) avionics/aviation technology\n(CPC97090)', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) Only through a locally incorporated\njoint-venture corporation with\nMalaysian individuals or Malaysian-\ncontrolled corporations or both and\naggregate foreign shareholding in the\njoint-venture corporation shall not\nexceed 30 per cent; and Establishment\nof local branches requires additional\nlicenses', '(1) None\n(2) None\n(3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 39 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Subsectors', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 40 -    (4)Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal section (4)Unbound, except for the categories of natural persons referred to under  market access  
                       ANNEX I Annex to Additional Commitments (Telecommunication Services)  
[['Principles', 'Procedural Requirements'], ['1. Competition safeguards', 'The regulatory body must take measure to:\n- Maintain fair competition among network operators;\n- Safeguard the interest of consumers;'], ['2. Universal Service Obligation', '- Ensure that network operators contribute to Universal Service Obligation particularly the extension of services into rural\nand other underserved areas as stipulated in the licences;'], ['3. Public availability of licensing criteria', "- To advise other network operators on the licensed status of each network operator including terms and conditions\npertaining to the operator's licence which govern the right of the licensee to interconnect with operators;"], ['4. Independent regulator', '-To exercise its functions with respect to the conduct of telecommunications operators and the running of\ntelecommunications services in Malaysia as provided for under Section 3B of the Telecommunications Act;'], ['5. Interconnection arrangements', 'To ensure that the following principles pertaining to interconnection arrangement are adhered to:\n- Interconnection and access between network operators shall be on an equitable and non-discriminatory basis;\n- Charges for interconnection facilities and services provided by network operators shall be fair and equitable;\n- The technical qualities of interconnect facilities and services provided by network operators shall be of no less quality than\nthat provided by them within their own networks;\n- A domestic network operator in any of the market segments shall not abuse its market power to limit access to essential\nfacilities only for interconnection;\n- The network operator that provides the access connection to the customer should be allowed to tell him (the customer);\n- No cross-subsidies should be allowed between carriers whereby one carrier has to bear an inequitable share of the\nUniversal Service Obligation burden where the said share is not proportional to its market share.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 41 - 
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES, INCLUDING INSURANCE\nHorizontal Commitments Applicable to the Financial Services Sector\n1. The commitments in the financial services sector are in accordance with the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the Annex on Financial Services.\n2. The limitations listed under the all-sector horizontal section shall not apply to financial services, unless otherwise indicated.\n3. In respect of offshore banks, offshore investment banks, commercial banks, merchant banks, offshore insurance and offshore reinsurance companies, offshore insurance\nbrokers, offshore insurance underwriting managers, offshore insurance managers, insurance companies, and representative offices of commercial banks and merchant\nbanks, the following limitations on market access, and national treatment shall apply in addition to specific limitations to the activity of each financial service as\nspecified for each activity in this Schedule.', None, None, None], ['ALL FINANCIAL SERVICES', '3) Limitations on investments as contained\nin the all-sector horizontal section.\n4) Limitations in the all-sector horizontal\nsection will apply when indicated in\neach activity.', '3) Limitations on land and other immovable\nproperty as contained in the all-sector\nhorizontal section.\nUnbound for measures affecting financial\nservices accorded, to any Bumiputera or\nto assist development of any Bumiputera\nfinancial institution to achieve objectives\nof the National Development Policy\n(NDP).\n4) Limitations in the all-sector horizontal\nsection will apply when indicated in each\nactivity.', ''], ['1. Offshore banks, offshore investment\nbanks, offshore direct insurance\ncompanies, offshore reinsurance\ncompanies, offshore insurance brokers,', '1), 2) Unbound* except as otherwise\nspecified in this schedule.', '1), 2) Unbound*, except as otherwise\nspecified in this schedule.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 42 -                                                      
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['offshore insurance underwriting managers\nand offshore insurance managers.', '3) Entry is confined to Labuan.\nEntry is limited to establishment of a\nbranch registered or a subsidiary\nincorporated in Malaysia.\n4) Unbound, except for temporary\npresence of natural persons in respect of\nsupply through the mode of commercial\npresence.', '3) None.\n4) Unbound, except for temporary presence\nof natural persons in respect of supply\nthrough the mode of commercial\npresence.', ''], ['2. Commercial banks and merchant\nbanks.', '1), 2) Unbound* except as otherwise\nspecified in this schedule.\n3) The 13 wholly-foreign owned\ncommercial banks are permitted to\nremain wholly-owned by their existing\nshareholders.\nUnbound for new licences.', '1), 2) Unbound* except as otherwise\nspecified in this schedule.\n3) None except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section and\nin the respective activity listed below.\nAcquisition by a foreign bank of an\naggregate of 5 percent or more of\nshareholding in a Malaysian-owned or\ncontrolled commercial bank or merchant\nbank must meet the following criteria:', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 43 -                                                        
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Entry is limited to equity participation\nby foreign banks in Malaysian-owned\nor controlled commercial banks and\nmerchant banks and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in a commercial bank or\na merchant bank shall not exceed 30\npercent. Shareholding by a single\nperson individually or jointly with\nrelated persons is limited to a\nmaximum of 20 percent.\nA commercial bank is not allowed to\nacquire any share in another\ncommercial bank but may acquire\nshares in one merchant bank.\nA merchant bank is not allowed to\nacquire any share in a commercial bank\nor another merchant bank.\nOther persons are not permitted to\nacquire 5 percent or more of\nshareholding in a commercial bank or\nmerchant bank if the person already\nholds 5 percent or more of shareholding\nin another licensed financial institution.', '(a) The foreign bank has the ability to\nfacilitate trade and contribute to\nfinancial and economic\ndevelopment of Malaysia;\n(b) The country of the foreign bank has\nsignificant trade and investment\ninterests in Malaysia; and\n(c) The country of the foreign bank does\nnot have significant representation\nin the Malaysian banking industry.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 44 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ["All financial services- commercial banks\nand merchant banks - cont'd)", 'Entry is also permitted through the\nsetting up of representative offices.\nRepresentative offices can only\nundertake research, exchange of\ninformation and liaison services.\n4) Unbound except the following:\n(a) Unless otherwise specified,\ntemporary presence of natural\npersons is offered only in respect of\nsupply through the mode of\ncommercial presence.\n(b) Two senior managers and five\nspecialists or experts for each bank\nA senior manager is an individual\npossessing proprietary knowledge\nand authority essential to the\nestablishment, control and operation\nof the services of the financial\nservice supplier.\nSpecialists or experts for each bank\nfor areas relating to:\n(i) trade financing;\n(ii) corporate finance;\n(iii) treasury management; and\n(iv) information technology.\n(c) For a representative office, two\nforeign nationals. Only one foreign\nnational for the two top posts.\n(d) Entry shall be limited to a maximum\nperiod of five years.', '4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 45 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 46 -3. Direct insurance companies. 1), 2) Unbound except as otherwise specified in this schedule.  1), 2) Unbound except as otherwise specified in this schedule.     3) Branches of foreign insurance companies are required to be locally incorporated   in accordance with the Insurance Act 1996 and foreign shareholding not exceeding 51 percent is permitted.  Foreign shareholding not exceeding 51 percent is also permitted for the existing foreign shareholders of locally incorporated insurance companies which were the original owners of these companies. Provided aggregate foreign shareholding in such companies does not exceed 51 percent.  New entry is limited to equity participation by foreign insurance companies in locally incorporated insurance companies and aggregate foreign shareholding in such company shall not exceed 30 percent. Unbound for new licences.    3) None except as indicated in the all financial services horizontal section and in the respective activity listed below.Acquisition by a foreign insurance company of an aggregate of more than 5 percent shareholding in a locally incorporated insurance company must meet at least one of the following criteria: (a) The foreign insurance company has the  ability to facilitate trade and contribute to financial and economic development  of Malaysia; (b) The country of the foreign insurance company has significant trade and investment interests in Malaysia;   (c) The country of the foreign insurance company does not have a significant representation in the Malaysian insurance industry; or  (d) The foreign insurance company has the ability to provide technical expertise and know-how to contribute to the financial and economic development of Malaysia.      An insurance company is not allowed to acquire more than 5 percent share:                                                         
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(a) In another insurance\ncompany in Malaysia that\ncarries on the same class of\ninsurance business as that\ncarried on by it; or\n(b) In an insurance broking\ncompany.\nOther persons holding more than\n5 percent shareholding in an insurance\ncompany are not permitted to acquire\nmore than 5 percent shareholding in:\n(a) Another insurance company\ncarrying on the same class of\ninsurance business as that\ncarried on by the insurance\ncompany in which the person\nis a shareholder; or\n(b) An insurance broking\ncompany.\n4) Unbound except the following:\n(a) Unless otherwise specified,\ntemporary presence of natural\npersons is offered only in respect\nof supply through the mode of\ncommercial presence.\n(b) Two senior managers and five\nspecialists or experts for branches\nof foreign insurance companies\nand locally incorporated insurance', '4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 47 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'companies.\nA senior manager is an individual\npossessing proprietary knowledge\nand authority essential to the\nestablishment, control and\noperation of the services of the\nfinancial service supplier.\nSpecialists or experts for each\ninstitution for areas relating to:\n(i) underwriting of\nspecialized classes of\ngeneral business;\n(ii) information technology;\nand\n(iii) actuarial functions.\n(c) Entry shall be limited to a\nmaximum period of five years.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 48 -A. BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES, EXCLUDING INSURANCE    Acceptance of deposits, and other repayable funds from the public, wholesale and retail.     1) Soliciting, advertising and acceptance of deposits in Malaysia are not allowed.2) None.       1) None.  2) None.   3) Only permitted through a commercial bank, a merchant bank or an offshore bank.   Offshore banks in Labuan are permitted to accept foreign currency deposits only. Offshore investment banks in 3) For commercial banks, unbound for branching (including off-premises ATMs) and networking with ATMs in Malaysia.      
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Lending of all types, including consumer\ncredit, mortgage credit, factoring and\nfinancing of commercial transactions.', 'Labuan are not permitted to accept\ndeposits.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.\n1), 2) Financial services associated with\nlending to residents in any currency in\nexcess of an equivalent of\nRM25 million must be undertaken\njointly with commercial banks or\nmerchant banks in Malaysia.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.\n1), 2) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 49 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[[None, 'Representative offices can only', None], [None, 'undertake research and liaison', None], [None, 'services.', None], ['', None, None], [None, None, 'Provision of factoring services by a'], [None, None, 'commercial bank requires the setting up'], [None, None, 'of a separate entity and shareholding by'], [None, None, 'a foreign-controlled commercial bank'], [None, None, 'shall not exceed 30 percent.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 50 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ["(Lending of all types - cont'd)", '(4) For banks, unbound except as\nindicated in all financial services\nhorizontal section.\nFor non-banks, unbound except one\nforeign national for a management\npost which is not the CEO post, for\neach establishment.\nFor representative offices of\nscheduled businesses, two foreign\nnationals subject to only one foreign\nnational for the two top posts.\nEntry shall be limited to a maximum\nperiod of five years.', '(4) For banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all financial services\nhorizontal section.\nFor non-banks, unbound except for\nthe categories of natural persons\nreferred to under market access.', ''], ['Financial leasing.', '1), 2) Leasing services to residents in any\ncurrency must be undertaken jointly\nwith leasing companies or merchant\nbanks in Malaysia.\n3) Provision of leasing services by a\ncommercial bank requires the setting\nup of a separate entity and', '1), 2) None.\n3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 51 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'shareholding by a foreign-controlled\ncommercial bank shall not exceed 49\npercent.\nEntry as a non-bank is limited to:\n(a) Foreign financial institutions\nthrough the establishment of a\nlocally incorporated joint-venture\ncompany and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in such company\nshall not exceed 49 percent; or\n(b) A representative office.\nRepresentative offices can only\nundertake research and liaison\nservices.', '', ''], ['', 'Entry is permitted through the\nestablishment of a branch or subsidiary\nin Labuan by reputable foreign leasing\ncompanies. Such offshore entity can', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 52 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'only transact in foreign currencies.\nOffshore banks and offshore investment\nbanks are permitted to carry on\nfinancial leasing business in foreign\ncurrencies only.', '', ''], ['', '4) Unbound except two foreign nationals,\none for management post which is not\nthe CEO post and one technical post,\nfor each establishment.\nFor representative offices, two foreign\nnationals subject to one foreign national\nfor the two top posts.\nEntry shall be limited to a maximum\nperiod of five years.\nFor offshore leasing companies,\nunbound except for temporary presence\nof natural persons in respect of supply\nthrough the mode of commercial\npresence.', '4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.\nFor offshore leasing companies, unbound\nexcept for temporary presence of natural\npersons in respect of supply through the\nmode of commercial presence.', ''], ['All payment and money transmission\nservices, namely credit and debit cards,\ntravellers cheques and bankers drafts.', '1) Electronic fund transfer system requires\napproval.\n2) None.\n3) Offshore banks are permitted to extend\npayment and money transmission\nservices to non-residents only.\nOnly commercial banks are permitted to\nissue credit cards, debit cards or provide', '1) None.\n2) None.\n3) For commercial banks, unbound for\nbranching (including off-premises\nATMs) and networking with ATMs in\nMalaysia.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 53 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'checking account services.', '', ''], ['', "Sale or purchase of foreign currency\nand purchase of travellers cheques\nother than by commercial banks require\nmoney changer's licence. Entry is\nlimited to establishment of a locally\nincorporated joint-venture company and\naggregate foreign shareholding in such\ncompany shall not exceed 30 percent.\n4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except one\nforeign national for a management post\nwhich is not the CEO post, for each\nestablishment.\nEntry shall be limited to a maximum\nperiod of five years.", 'Branching (including dispensers) is\npermitted for travellers cheques\ncompanies with foreign shareholding not\nexceeding 30 percent.\n4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except for the\ncategories of natural persons referred to\nunder market access.', ''], ['Charge cards.', '1), 2) None\n3) Entry is limited to establishment of a\ncompany incorporated in Malaysia.\nApproval of the Central Bank is\nrequired.\n4) Unbound except two senior managers\nfor each establishment.\nEntry shall be limited to a maximum\nperiod of five years.', '1), 2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 54 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Guarantees and commitments.', '1), 2) None except banks established in\nMalaysia may be given the right of\nfirst refusal.\n3) None.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services and all-sector\nhorizontal section.', '1), 2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services and all-sector\nhorizontal section.', ''], ['Money and foreign exchange broking\nservices.', '1), 2) Broking services, involving Ringgit\nMalaysia and financial instruments\nissued in Malaysia must be effected\nthrough authorized dealers and money\nand foreign exchange brokers\nincorporated in Malaysia.\n3) Entry is limited to:\n(a) equity participation in existing\ninstitutions and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in such institutions\nshall not exceed 30 percent; or', '1), 2) None\n3) None', ''], ['', '(b) the establishment of a branch or\nsubsidiary, by a money and foreign\nexchange broker, registered or\nincorporated in Labuan.\nMoney and foreign exchange broking\nservices by offshore entities are\nconfined to foreign currencies only.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 55 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '4) Unbound.\nFor offshore money and foreign\nexchange brokers, unbound except for\ntemporary presence of natural persons\nin respect of supply through the mode\nof commercial presence.', '4) Unbound\nFor offshore money and foreign\nexchange brokers, unbound except for\ntemporary presence of natural persons in\nrespect of supply through the mode of\ncommercial presence.', ''], ['Trading for own account or account of\ncustomers in the following:\n- money market instruments\n- foreign exchange\n- transferable securities\n- exchange rate and interest rate\ninstruments\n- derivative products, including futures\nand options\n- other negotiable instruments,\nincluding bullion', '1) Dealing is limited to contracts traded on\nspecified exchanges abroad.\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 56 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '3) Transactions by offshore banks and\noffshore investment banks in Labuan\nmust be conducted in foreign\ncurrencies, except for the sale or\npurchase of currencies with authorized\nbanks in Malaysia.\nTransactions by offshore banks and\noffshore investment banks in Labuan\nfor own account are limited to\ninstruments created and issued by\noffshore companies in Labuan and\nforeign companies abroad.\nTrading for accounts of customers by\noffshore banks, offshore investment\nbanks and offshore companies in\nLabuan is confined to non-resident\ncustomers and in instruments created\nand issued by offshore companies in\nLabuan and foreign companies abroad.\nTrading in shares of Malaysian\ncompanies by offshore banks, offshore\ninvestment banks and offshore\ncompanies in Labuan is confined to\nnon-resident customers who are not\noffshore companies registered or\nincorporated in Labuan.\nOnly commercial banks, offshore banks\nand offshore investment banks are\npermitted to trade in foreign currency.', '3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 57 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ["(Trading for own account or account of\ncustomers - cont'd)", 'Trading and dealing in securities and\nfinancial futures and derivative products\nother than by designated financial\ninstitutions require establishment of a\nlocally incorporated joint-venture\ncompany and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in such company shall not\nexceed 30 percent.\nTrades for own account and account of\ncustomers who are outside Malaysia\nmay be routed to participating\norganisations of the stock exchange for\nexecution by a foreign stock broking\ncompany that is incorporated in\nMalaysia subject to all terms and\nconditions which are being finalized.\n4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 58 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Services related to the issues of all kinds of\nsecurities and placement as agents\n(whether publicly or privately) (excluding\nissuing and rating houses).', '1), 2) Participation in issues and services\nrelated to such issues requires\nauthorization.\n3) Participation by offshore banks and\noffshore investment banks in Labuan is\nlimited to non-resident customers and\nfor issues of securities outside\nMalaysia.\nOnly merchant banks are permitted to\nmake submissions to the Securities\nCommission for new issues.\nParticipation by non-banks requires\nestablishment of a locally incorporated\njoint-venture company and aggregate\nforeign shareholding in such company\nshall not exceed 30 percent.\nUnbound for appointment as principal\ndealers.\n4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '1), 2) None\n3) None\n4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['Underwriting.', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) Authorization is required.', '1) Unbound.\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 59 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '3) For non-banks, only licensed dealers are\npermitted to underwrite. Entry is\nlimited to establishment of a locally\nincorporated joint-venture company and\naggregate foreign shareholding in such\ncompany shall not exceed 30 percent.\nCommercial banks are permitted to\nunderwrite private debt securities only.\nOffshore banks and offshore investment\nbanks are permitted to underwrite\nforeign currency denominated securities\ncreated and issued by offshore\ncompanies in Labuan and foreign\ncompanies abroad.\n4) For commercial banks, merchant banks,\noffshore banks and offshore investment\nbanks, unbound except as indicated in\nthe all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '3) None\n4) For commercial banks, merchant banks,\noffshore banks and offshore investment\nbanks, unbound except as indicated in the\nall financial services horizontal section.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 60 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Asset management as follows:\n- cash or portfolio management\n- all forms of collective investment\nmanagement\n- custodial and depository services', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None.\n3) Custodial and depository services are\nlimited to scrip based securities.\nAsset management by offshore banks,\noffshore investment banks and offshore\ncompanies is confined to non-resident\ncustomers and foreign currency assets.\nAsset management by offshore banks,\noffshore investment banks and offshore\ncompanies in Malaysian equities or\nequity-linked investments are confined\nto non-resident customers other than\noffshore companies incorporated in\nLabuan in which residents have\nshareholdings.\nEntry as a non-bank, other than a\nForeign Fund Management Company\n(FFMC) is limited to establishment of a\nlocally incorporated joint-venture\ncompany and aggregate shareholding in\nsuch company shall not exceed 30\npercent.\nProvision of asset management services\nby a commercial bank requires\nestablishment of a separate entity and\nshareholding by a foreign-controlled\ncommercial bank shall not exceed 30\npercent.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 61 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Entry as an FFMC is limited to the\nestablishment of a company\nincorporated locally with more than 50\npercent foreign shareholding in the\ncompany and requires the approval of\nthe Securities Commission. Sourcing of\nlocal funds worth at least RM10 million\nis limited to FFMCs where the\naggregate foreign shareholding is not\nmore than 70 percent and the company\nis managing or has undertaken to\nmanage funds sourced from outside\nMalaysia to the amount of at least\nUSD100 million. Sourcing of local\nfunds is limited to institutional funds\nand collective investment schemes\nother than unit trusts. Only ten FFMCs\nwhich have a maximum of 70 percent\nforeign shareholding may manage the\nfunds of a local unit trust subject to the\napproval of the Securities Commission.\n4) For commercial banks and merchant\nbanks, unbound except as indicated in\nthe all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', '4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['Advisory, intermediation and other\nauxiliary financial services, including\ncredit reference and analysis, investment\nadvice on acquisitions, corporate\nrestructuring and strategy.', '1) Provision of investment and portfolio\nadvice requires commercial presence.\nServices other than investment and\nportfolio advice to residents must be\nundertaken jointly with commercial', '1) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 62 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'banks or merchant banks in Malaysia.\n2) Services other than investment and\nportfolio advice to residents must be\nundertaken jointly with commercial\nbanks or merchant banks in Malaysia.', '2) None.', ''], ['', '3) Entry as a non-bank is limited to:\n(a) Establishment of a locally\nincorporated joint-venture\ncompany and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in such company\nshall not exceed 30 percent; or\n(b) A representative office.\nRepresentative offices (including\nthose of commercial banks,\nmerchant banks and securities\ncompanies) are permitted to\nundertake research, information\nand liaison services only.\nRepresentative offices of securities\ncompanies are not permitted to\npublish and circulate research work\nin Malaysia.\nOffshore banks, offshore investment\nbanks and offshore companies in\nLabuan can only provide services to\nnon-resident customers.', '3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 63 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.\nFor representative offices, two foreign\nnationals subject to only one foreign\nnational for the two top posts. Entry\nshall be limited to a maximum period of\nfive years.', '4) For banks, unbound except as indicated\nin the all financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor non-banks, unbound except as\nindicated in the all-sector horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['Operational headquarters (OHQ) for\nfinancial sector (Provides services to\ncommercial and investment banking\ninstitutions in activities relating to work\ncarried out in Malaysia for its offices and\nrelated companies outside Malaysia,\npertaining to general management and\nadministration, business planning,\ntechnical support, marketing control and\nsales promotion planning, training and\npersonnel management, provision of', '1), 2) Unbound*\n3) Only through a locally incorporated\nwholly foreign-owned company.\nA foreign-owned company, a regional\noffice of a foreign-owned company\nwhich transfers its OHQ services to\nMalaysia, a regional office of a foreign-\nowned company established in\nMalaysia, and a foreign-owned\ncompany which is already incorporated', '1), 2) Unbound*\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 64 -                                                       
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['treasury and fund management services\nand research and development).', 'in Malaysia, may seek to qualify as an\nOHQ.\nAn OHQ must operate in Malaysia and\nfulfill the following criteria:\n(a) Carry out at least three of the OHQ\nservice activities;\n(b) Have a sizeable network of\ncompanies outside Malaysia which\nincludes the parent company or its\nhead office and related companies;', '', ''], ['', '(c) Have a well established foreign-\nowned company which is sizeable\nin terms of assets and employees;\n(d) Have a network of companies with\na substantial number of qualified\nexecutives, professionals, technical\nand other supporting personnel;\n(e) Be able to make decisions\nindependently without consultation\nwith its head office or parent\ncompany located outside Malaysia;\n(f) Be able to contribute to the\nMalaysian economy by:\n(i) Using services such as\nlegal, accounting etc. provided by\nMalaysians;\n(ii) Creating job opportunities for\nMalaysians;\n(iii) Enabling greater inflow of\nforeign funds.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nall-sector horizontal section.', '4) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 65 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Securities broking services comprising:\n- broking services;\n- credit reference and analysis;\n- investment portfolio management\nand advice; and\n- market research', '1) Trades on Malaysian stock exchanges\nmust be transacted through companies\nincorporated in Malaysia which are\nparticipating organisations of the\nexchange.\nPromotion in Malaysia of Malaysian\nstocks requires approval.\nProvision of investment advisory\nservices and credit reference services to\nresidents requires commercial presence.', '1) None', ''], [None, '2) Trades on Malaysian stock exchanges\nmust be transacted through companies\nincorporated in Malaysia which are\nparticipating organisations of the\nexchange.\n3) Entry is limited to recognized foreign\nstock broking companies through:\n(a) Equity participation in an existing\nstockbroking company; or\n(b) Establishment of a locally\nincorporated joint-venture\ncompany with a Malaysian\nstockbroking company.\nAnd aggregate foreign shareholding in\nsuch company shall not exceed\n49 percent.', '2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 66 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'A foreign stockbroking company is\npermitted to have shareholding in one\nstockbroking company only.\nEntry by recognized foreign\nstockbroking companies is also\npermitted through a representative\noffice.\nRepresentative offices are permitted to\nundertake research, information and\nliaison services only. Representative\noffices are not permitted to publish and\ncirculate research work in Malaysia.\nNew licences subject to conditions,\nincluding geographical location,\nnumerical quota and other conditions to\nbe determined.\n4) Unbound for a stockbroking company,\nexcept as indicated in the all-sector\nhorizontal section.\nFor representative offices, two foreign\nnationals subject to only one foreign\nnational for the two top posts. Entry\nshall be limited to a maximum period of\nfive years.', '4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.', ''], ['Commodity futures broking services.', '1) 2) Trades on any Malaysian commodity\nfutures exchange must be conducted\nthrough companies incorporated in\nMalaysia which are trading participants\nof the exchange.', '1), 2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 67 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '', '', ''], ['', '3) Entry is limited to:\n(a) Establishment of a locally\nincorporated joint-venture\ncompany and aggregate foreign\nshareholding in such company is\nlimited to 30 percent or any higher\npercentage as determined by the\nrelevant authorities; or\n(b) A representative office.\nRepresentative offices are\npermitted to undertake research,\ninformation and liaison services\nonly.\nTotal participantship of the exchange\nwill be based on economic needs.\n4) Unbound except one foreign national\nfor a management post per\nestablishment, subject to market test.', '3) None\n4) Unbound except for the categories of\nnatural persons referred to under market\naccess.', ''], ['B. INSURANCE SERVICES\nDirect insurance (non-life).', '1) Soliciting and advertising in Malaysia\nare not allowed.\nDirect placement abroad of insurance\nof:', '1) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 68 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(a) movable or immovable property\nlocated in Malaysia, including\nany ship or aircraft registered in\nMalaysia; and\n(b) liability of residents to third party\nrequires approval. Approval will\nbe granted if such insurance is\nnot available from direct\ninsurance companies in\nMalaysia.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 69 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '2) Direct placement abroad of insurance\nof:\n(a) movable or immovable property\nlocated in Malaysia, including\nany ship or aircraft registered in\nMalaysia; and\n(b) liability of residents to third party\nrequires approval. Approval will\nbe granted if such insurance is\nnot available from direct\ninsurance companies in\nMalaysia.\n3) Only permitted through direct insurance\ncompanies.\nOffshore direct insurance companies in\nLabuan are not permitted to accept\ndirect insurance of Malaysian risks.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '2) None\n3) Branching is permitted for direct\ninsurance companies with aggregate\nforeign shareholding of less than 50\npercent. Direct insurance companies are\npermitted to maintain their existing\nnetwork of branches.\nUnbound for special assistance to\nMalaysian-owned direct insurance\ncompanies to promote their development.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 70 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['Direct insurance (life).', '1), 2) Unbound\n3) Only permitted through direct insurance\ncompanies.\nInvestment-linked insurance business\nand new life insurance products\nprovided by direct insurance companies\nrequire approval,\nOffshore direct insurance companies in\nLabuan are not permitted to underwrite\nlife insurance of residents. This\nlimitation does not apply to ordinary\nlife insurance of high net worth\nresidents.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '1), 2) Unbound\n3) Branching is only permitted for direct\ninsurance companies with aggregate\nforeign shareholding of less than\n50 percent. Direct insurance companies\nare permitted to maintain their existing\nnetwork of branches.\nUnbound for special assistance to\nMalaysian-owned direct insurance\ncompanies to promote their development.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', ''], ['Reinsurance and retrocession (non-life).', '1), 2) Outward reinsurance is permitted only\nif local capacity is not available.', '1), 2) Voluntary cession up to 30\npercent of each class of non-life\nreinsurance business to the Malaysian\nReinsurance Berhad.\nUnbound for fiscal incentives to promote\nreinsurance in Malaysia.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 71 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '3) Obligation on all insurers other than\noffshore direct insurance and offshore\nreinsurance companies to optimise\nnational retention capacity before any\noutward reinsurance.\nUnbound for new licences.\nAggregate foreign shareholding in the\nMalaysian Reinsurance Berhad shall\nnot exceed 30 percent.\nEntry as an offshore reinsurance\ncompany is confined to Labuan.\n4) Unbound except for:\n(a) Two senior managers and three\nspecialists or experts for each\ninstitution are permitted.\nA senior manager is an individual\npossessing proprietary knowledge\nand authority essential to the\nestablishment, control and\noperation of the services of the\nfinancial service supplier.\nSpecialists or experts are\nindividuals who possess\nknowledge and expertise relating to\nnew products and services,\ntechnique or management of the\nfinancial service supplier.', '3) Unbound for measures granting\nspecial position to Malaysian\nReinsurance Berhad.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nall financial services horizontal\nsection.\nFor offshore reinsurance companies,\nunbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 72 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(b) Entry shall be limited to a\nmaximum period of five years.\nFor offshore reinsurance companies,\nunbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '', ''], ['Reinsurance and retrocession (life).', '1), 2) Outward reinsurance is permitted only\nif local capacity is not available.\n3) National retention capacity is required\nto be optimised before any outward\nreinsurance by:\n(a) direct life insurance and life\nreinsurance companies in\nMalaysia; and\n(b) offshore direct life insurance and\noffshore life reinsurance\ncompanies which are permitted to\ninsure or reinsure life insurance of\nhigh net worth residents.\nUnbound for new licences.\nAggregate foreign shareholding in\nthe Malaysian Life Reinsurance\nGroup Berhad shall not exceed 30\npercent.\nEntry as an offshore reinsurance\ncompany is confined to Labuan.', '1), 2) Unbound for fiscal incentives to\npromote reinsurance in Malaysia.\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 73 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ["(Reinsurance and retrocession (life) -\ncont'd)", '4) Unbound except for:\n(a) Two senior managers and three\nspecialists or experts for each\ninstitution are permitted. A senior\nmanager is an individual\npossessing proprietary knowledge\nand authority essential to the\nestablishment, control and\noperation of the services\nof the financial service supplier.\nSpecialists or experts are\nindividuals who possess\nknowledge and expertise relating\nto new products and services,\ntechnique or management of the\nfinancial service supplier.\n(b) Movement of a senior manager,\nspecialist or expert can be through\nintra-corporate transfers or\notherwise.\n(c) Entry shall be limited to a\nmaximum period of five years.\nFor offshore reinsurance\ncompanies, unbound except as\nindicated in the all financial\nservices horizontal section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.\nFor offshore reinsurance companies,\nunbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', ''], ['Insurance intermediation - insurance\nbroking (excluding agency).', '1), 2) Direct insurance broking services can\nonly be provided to offshore companies\nin Labuan.', '1), 2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 74 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'Reinsurance broking is permitted.', '', ''], ['', '3) Unbound for onshore insurance\nbroking.\nBroking of direct insurance of\nMalaysian risks by offshore insurance\nbrokers is not permitted.\nThis limitation does not apply to\nbroking of reinsurance of Malaysian\nrisks.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', ''], ['Insurance intermediation\n- insurance underwriting and insurance\nmanagement.', '1), 2) Insurance underwriting and\ninsurance management are not\npermitted.\n3) Unbound for onshore insurance\nunderwriting and insurance\nmanagement.\nAn offshore insurance underwriting\nmanager is not permitted to provide\nservices to any person other than\noffshore insurance companies in\nLabuan.\nAn offshore insurance manager is\npermitted to provide insurance\nmanagement services to persons other\nthan residents.', '1), 2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 75 -
                       Mode of Supply:   (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad  (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the all\nfinancial services horizontal section.', ''], ['Services auxiliary to insurance, as follows:\n(a) Consultancy (excludes insurance\nagency services to insurance\nindustry)\n(b) Actuarial risk assessment\n(c) Risk management\n(d) Maritime loss adjusting.', '1) Actuarial services can only be provided\nto offshore insurance companies and\noffshore reinsurance companies in\nLabuan.\n2) None.\n3) Limited to the establishment of:\n(a) Locally incorporated companies;\n(b) Branches; or\n(c) Partnerships.\nOffshore companies are not permitted\nto provide services to Malaysian\nresidents.\n4) Unbound except for temporary presence\nof natural persons in respect of supply\nthrough the mode of commercial\npresence.', '1) None.\n2) None.\n3) None.\n4) Unbound except for temporary presence\nof natural persons in respect of supply\nthrough the mode of commercial\npresence.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MAL - 76 - 
 KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         MYANMAR  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)            
 MYANMAR – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['AIR TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\n1. Aircraft Repair\nand Maintenance\nServices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Commercial presence of foreign\nservice suppliers and/or providers\nare permitted in accordance with\nthe Union of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988, the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914\nand existing laws and regulations.\n(b) 100% Foreign investment or joint\nventure with a Myanmar citizen\nor enterprise with a minimum of\n35% equity is permitted under the\nUnion of Myanmar foreign\nInvestment Law (1988).\nMinimum foreign capital is USD\n300,000 for services. Form of\nincorporation may be sole\nproprietorship, partnership or\nlimited company.\n(c) Incorporation of an enterprise not\ninvolving a state enterprise is to\nbe made under the Myanmar\nCompanies Act (1914).Minimum\nshare capital (in cash)\nrequirement for services\ncompanies and branches is\nequivalent of kyat 300,000 in\nUSD at current official rate.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The Income Tax Law 1974 prescribed\nthat non-resident (foreigners) are\nsubject to a withholding tax is as\nfollows:\nClass of Income Non-resident\nforeigners\n- Interest 15%\n- Royalties for use of 20%\nLicenses, trade marks,\nPatent right etc.\n- Payments to contractors 3.5%\nmade by government orga-\nnizations, municipalities and\ncooperative societies\n- Payments for work done 3%\nto foreign contractors.\n(b) Foreign organizations and persons are\nnot allowed to own land in Myanmar.\nHowever, land may be acquired on long\nterm lease, depending on individual\ncircumstances.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 2 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(d) If the investment involves a state\nenterprise, incorporation shall be\nmade under the Special\nCompanies ACT (1950) and the\nMyanmar Companies Act (1914).\n(e) Services activities under\nsection 3 of the SEEs Law are\nrestricted. However, those\nactivities may be permitted by\nCabinet notification according to\nthe section 4 of the said law.', '', ''], [None, '4)(a) Subject to the provision of the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law, Myanmar\nLabour Law , Immigration Law\nand existing laws and regulations.\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts are allowed to\nstay up to one year and may be\nextendable thereon.\n(b) Only management level is allowed\nin Myanmar.', '4) (a) Any expatriate engaged in joint\nventures, representative offices or\nother types of judicial person and/or\nindividual services provider shall\nreceive the approval of the respective\nauthority.\n(b) Any expatriate entering into Myanmar\nshall abide by the immigration rules\nand procedures of Myanmar.\n(c) Any expatriate in Myanmar shall abide\nby the laws, rules and regulations of\nMyanmar and they shall not interfere\nin the internal affairs of the country.\n(d) Individual services providers who work\nwith the approval of respective\nauthorities shall register themselves\nwith the Department of labour.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 3 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['AIR TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\n2. Selling and Marketing of\nAir Transport Services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Commercial presence of foreign\nservice suppliers and/or providers\nare permitted in accordance with\nthe Union of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988 , the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914\nand existing laws and regulations.\n(b) 100% Foreign investment or joint\nventure with a Myanmar citizen\nor enterprise with a minimum of\n35% equity is permitted under the\nUnion of Myanmar foreign\nInvestment Law (1988).\nMinimum foreign capital is USD\n300,000 for services. Form of\nincorporation may be sole\nproprietorship, partnership or\nlimited company.\n(c) Incorporation of an enterprise not\ninvolving a state enterprise is to\nbe made under the Myanmar\nCompanies Act (1914).Minimum\nshare capital (in cash)\nrequirement for services\ncompanies and branches is\nequivalent of kyat 300,000 in\nUSD at current official rate.\n(d) If the investment involves a state\nenterprise, incorporation shall be\nmade under the Special', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The non-resident (foreigners) are Income\nTax Law 1974 prescribed that subject to\na withholding tax is as follows:\nClass of Income Non-resident\nforeigners\n- Interest 15%\n- Royalties for use of 20%\nLicenses, trade marks,\nPatent right etc.\n- Payments to contractors 3.5%\nmade by government,\norganizations, municipalities\nand co-operative societies\n- Payments for work done 3%\nto foreign contractors\n(b) Foreign organizations and persons are\nnot allowed to own land in Myanmar.\nHowever, land may be acquired on long\nterm lease, depending on individual\ncircumstances.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 4 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Companies ACT (1950) and the\nMyanmar Companies Act (1914).\n(e) Services activities under section\n3 of the SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.', '', ''], ['', '4)(a) Subject to the provision of the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law, Myanmar Labour\nLaw , Immigration Laws and\nexisting laws and regulations,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts are allowed to\nstay up to one year and may be\nextendable thereon.\n(b) Only management level is allowed\nin Myanmar.', '4) (a) Any expatriate engaged in joint\nventures, representative offices or\nother types of judicial person and/or\nindividual services provider shall\nreceive the approval of the respective\nauthority.\n(b) Any expatriate entering into Myanmar\nshall abide by the immigration rules\nand procedures of Myanmar.\n(c) Any expatriate in Myanmar shall\nabide by the laws, rules and\nregulations of Myanmar and they\nshall not interfere in the internal\naffairs of the country.\n(d) Individual services providers who\nwork with the approval of respective\nauthorities shall register themselves\nwith the Department of labour.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 5 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['AIR TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\n3. Computer Réservation\nSystem Services', '1) None, except that services providers\nmust use public telecommunication\nnetworks under national\ntelecommunication authorities in\naccordance with prescribed rules and\nregulations.\n2) Subject to commercial\narrangements with licensed\noperator(s)\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\n1. Advertising Services (CPC\n871)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4). Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\n2. Printing and Publishing\n(CPC 89)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\n3. Audio Visual Services\n- Motion Picture and Video\nTape Production\nServices(CPC 96121) 1', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign service suppliers are allowed\nto produce motion pictures only in\ncooperation with domestic\nproducers. Joint Venture film\nproducing companies, based on', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 6 -                                     
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'equity or contract, with majority\ndomestic ownership will be allowed\nto establish modern production\nstudios and production parks.\n- Commercial Presence of Foreign\nservice suppliers and producers are\npermitted in accordance with the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988. Under this\nlaw, joint venture with Myanmar\ncitizen or enterprise with a\nminimum of 35% foreign equity is\npermitted. A limited company has\nto be formed in accordance with the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914 and\nexisting laws and regulations.\n- Foreign organizations and\npersons are not allowed to own land\nin Myanmar. However, land may be\nacquired from the government on\nlong may be acquired from the\ngovernment on long term lease\nbasis.\n- Services activities under section 3\nof the SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.', '', ''], ['', '4) Subject to the union of Myanmar\nForeign Investment Law, Myanmar\nLabour Law, Immigration Laws and', '4) Subject to domestic rules and regulations\nfor the categories of natural persons\npersons referred to under market access.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 7 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'existing laws and regulations, only\nmanagers, executives, experts and\nskilled technicians of foreign\nnationality will be granted stay permit\nof one year (under domestic law).If the\nforeigner wishes to stay beyond the\ninitial valid period, he may apply, in\naccordance with rules and regulations,\nfor an extension of a period not\nexceeding one year.', 'Standard rate of income taxes are 30%\nof net profit for Kyat-income and 2% of\nnet profit for foreign currency-income.', ''], ['BUSINESS SERVICES\n4. Cinema Theatre Services\nand Motion Picture Projection\nServices (CPC 9615)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], [None, '1) None\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 8 -862) 3) - Joint venture or partnership with Myanmar Locally registered public accountants is encouraged after fulfilling requirements prescribed by Foreign Investment Law, provided that the foreign counterpart must be qualified and duly registered as a practicing Public Accountant in his/ her country.        - Subject to the provision of the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law, Myanmar Labour Law, Immigration Law and existing laws and regulations, management, professional and technical experts 3)  As indicated in the Market Access.  
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'are allowed to stay up to permission.\n- Services activities under section 3 of\nthe SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the said\nlaw.\n4) Unbound', '4) Unbound', ''], ['BUSINESS\nSERVICES\n6. Engineering Services\n(CPC 8672)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n2) None\n3) a. Commercial presence of foreign\nsuppliers and/or providers are\npermitted in accordance with the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988 , the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914\nand existing laws and\nregulations , under these laws:\n(i) 100% foreign Investment or\n(ii) joint venture with a Myanmar\ncitizen or enterprises with a\nminimum of 35% equity is\npermitted.\nb. Foreign organizations and persons\nare not allowed to own a land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be\nacquired on long term lease,\ndepending on the individual\ncircumstances.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Market Access column', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 9 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'c. Services activities under section 3\nof the SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.', '', ''], ['', '4) a. Subject to the Union of\nMyanmar Foreign Investment\nLaw, Myanmar Labour Laws,\nImmigration Laws and existing\nlaws and regulations,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts unless\nmentioned otherwise are allowed\nto stay up to one year and\nextendable there on.\nb. Preference for entry and temporary\nstay of skilled workers from\ntraditional source of supply.\nc. Unskilled labour is not allowed in\nMyanmar', '4) a. As indicated in market access column\nb. The government needs to regulate the\nflow of foreign workers to ensure\nsocial cohesion in Myanmar', ''], ['OTHER BUSINESS\nSERVICES\n7. Translation and\ninterpretation services\n(CPC 87905)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 10 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['MARITIME TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\n1.International Passenger\nTransport\n(Excluding Cabotage)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 11 -1) None 2) None  1) None 2) None MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES 2.International Freight      Transport     (Excluding Cabotage) 3.(a)  Commercial presence of foreign service suppliers and/or providers are permitted in accordance with the Union of Myanmar Foreign Investment Law 1988 , the Myanmar Companies Act 1914 and existing laws and regulations. Under this law:     (1)100%Foreign investment, or     (2)Joint Venture with a Myanmar citizen or enterprise with a mini-mum of 35% equity is permitted. Minimum foreign capital is US$ 300,000 for services, form of incorporation can be sole proprietorship, partnership or limited company.    (b) Incorporation of an enterprise, not involving state enterprise is to be made under the Myanmar Companies Act 1914. Minimum share capital (in cash) requirement for services companies and branches is equivalent of K 3,00,000 in USD at current official rate. If the investment involves a state 3) Unbound  
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'enterprise, incorporation shall be\nmade under the Special Company\nAct 1950 and Myanmar Companies\nAct 1914.\n(c) Foreign organizations and persons\nare not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be\nacquired on long term lease,\ndepending on the individual\nCircumstances.\n(d) Subject to the Union of Myanmar\nForeign Investment Law, Myanmar\nLabour Law, Immigration Laws and\nexisting laws and regulation,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts, unless mentioned\notherwise are allowed to stay up to\none year and may extendable\nthereon.\n(e) Services activities under section 3 of\nthe SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever , those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the said\nlaw.\n4) Subject to the existing laws and\nregulations, only management level is\nallowed in Myanmar.', '4) Unbound', ''], ['MARITIME\n3.Maritime cargo handling\nservices', '1. Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n2. None', '1. Unbound\n2. None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 12 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3.(a) Commercial presence of foreign\nservice suppliers and/or providers\nare permitted in accordance with\nthe Union of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988 , the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914 and\nexisting laws and regulations.\nUnder these laws:\n(1)100%Foreign investment, or\n(2)Joint Venture with a Myanmar\ncitizen or enterprise with a mini-\nmum of 35% equity is permitted.\nForm of incorporation can be sole\nproprietorship, partnership or\nlimited company.\n(b) Incorporation of an enterprise, not\ninvolving state enterprise is to be\nmade under the Myanmar\nCompanies Act 1914. Minimum\nshare capital (in cash) requirement\nfor companies and branches is\nequivalent of K 3,00,000 in USD\nby official conversion rate. If the\ninvestment involves a state\nenterprise, incorporation shall be\nmade under the Special Company\nAct 1950 and Myanmar Companies\nAct 1914.\n(c) Foreign organizations and persons\nare not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be\nacquired on long term lease,\ndepending on the individual\ncircumstances.', '3. The Income Tax Law 1974 prescribed that\nnon-resident (Foreigner) will be subject\nto a withholding tax is as follows:-\nClass of Income Non - resident\nForeigners\n- Interest 15%\n- Royalties for use of Licenses, 20%\ntrade marks, Patent right etc.\n- Payments to contractors made 3.5%\nby Government Organizations,\nMunicipalities and Co-operative\nSocieties\n- Payments for work done 3%\nto foreign contractors\nForeigners are not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However land may be acquired\non long term lease depending on the\nindividual circumstances.\nA judicial person may perform services to\nclients in Myanmar but are not allowed to\npractice in Myanmar courts of law.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 13 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(d) Subject to the Union of Myanmar\nForeign Investment Law, Myanmar\nLabour Law, Immigration Laws and\nexisting laws and regulations,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts, unless mentioned\notherwise are allowed to stay up to\none year and may extendable\nthereon.\n(e) Services activities under section 3 of\nthe SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the said\nlaw.', '', ''], ['', '4) Subject to existing laws and\nregulations, management,\nprofessional and technical experts\nare allowed in Myanmar.', '4) (a) Any expatriate engage in Joint\nVenture representative offices or\nother type of judicial person and or\nindividual services provider shall\nreceive the approval of the\nrespective authority.\n(b) The immigration rules and\nprocedures shall abide by any\nexpatriate when entering into\nMyanmar.\n(c) Any expatriate in Myanmar shall\nabide by the laws, rules and\nregulations of the Union of\nMyanmar and that they shall not\ninterfere in the internal affairs of\nthe country.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 14 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '(d) Individual service provider who\nwork with approval of respective\nauthority shall register themselves\nwith the Department of Labour.', ''], ['MARITIME TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\n4. Storage and Warehousing\nServices', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical\nfeasibility\n2) None\n3) (a) Commercial presence of foreign\nservice suppliers and/or providers\nare permitted in accordance with\nthe Union of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988 , the\nMyanmar Companies Act 1914 and\nexisting laws and regulations.\nUnder these laws:\n(1) 100% Foreign investment or,\n(2) joint venture with a Myanmar\ncitizen or enterprise with a\nminimum of 35% equity is\npermitted. Form of incorporation\nmay be sole proprietorship,\npartnership or limited company.\n(b)Incorporation of an enterprise not\ninvolving a State enterprise is to be\nmade under the Myanmar\nCompanies Act (1914). Minimum\nshare capital (in cash) requirement\nfor services companies and\nbranches is equivalent of kyat\n300,000 in USD at current official\nrate.\nIf the investment involves a state', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) (a)The Income Tax Law 1974 prescribes\nthat non-resident (foreigners) will be\nsubject to a withholding tax is as\nfollows:\nClass of Income Non- resident\nForeigners\n- Interest 15%\n- Royalties for use of 20%\nlicenses , trade marks,\npatent rights, etc.\n- Payments to\ncontractors made 3.5%\nby government orga-\nnizations, municipalities and\ncooperative societies\n- Payments for work done 3%\nto foreign contractors.\nForeigners are not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be acquired\non long term lease, depending on individual\ncircumstances.\nA juridical person may services to clients in\nMyanmar but are not allowed to practice in', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 15 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'enterprise, incorporation shall be\nmade under the Special Companies\nACT (1950) and the Myanmar\nCompanies Act (1914).\n(c) Foreign organizations and persons\nare not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be\nacquired on long term lease,\ndepending on individual\ncircumstances.\n(d) Subject to the provision of the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law, Myanmar Labour\nLaw , Immigration Laws and\nexisting laws and regulations,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts unless mentioned\notherwise are allowed to stay up to\none year and may be extendable\nthereon.\n(e) Services activities under section 3\nof the SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.', 'Myanmar court of law.', ''], ['', '4) Subject to existing laws and\nregulations, management, Professional\nand Technical Expert are allowed in\nMyanmar.', '4) (a) Any expatriate engaged in joint\nventures, repre-sentative offices or\nother types of judicial person and/or\nindividual services provider shall\nreceive the approval of the respective\nauthority.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 16 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '(b) The immigration rules and procedures\nshall abide by any expatriate when\nentering into Myanmar.\n(c) Any expatriate in Myanmar shall\nabide by the laws, rules and\nregulations of Myanmar and they\nshall not interfere in the internal\naffairs of the country.\n(d) Individual services providers who\nwork with the approval of respective\nauthorities shall register themselves\nwith the Department of labour.', ''], ['FINANCIAL\nSERVICES\n1. Average and loss adjustment\nservices\n(CPC 8143)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as:\nMyanmar Foreign Investment Law 1988\nand the Myanmar Companies Act 1914,\nMyanmar Insurance Law 1993, Insurance\nBusiness Law 1996, Myanmar labour\nLaw & Immigration Law etc.\n- Services activities under section 3 of the\nSEEs Law are restricted. However,\nthose activities may be permitted by\nCabinet notification according to the\nsection 4 of the said law.\n-- Services activities under section 3 of\nthe SEEs Law are restricted. However,\nthose activities may be permitted by\nCabinet notification according to the\nsection 4 of the said law.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as: Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988, the Myanmar\nCompanies Act 1914, Myanmar\nInsurance Law 1993, Insurance\nBusiness Law 1996 , Immigration\nrules and procedure of Myanmar etc.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 17 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Subject to existing laws and\nregulations, only senior managerial\npersonnel specialists and technical\nassistants are allowed with the\napproval of the insurance\nsupervisory board.', '4) According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as; Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law 1988 ,the Myanmar\nCompanies Act 1914, Myanmar\nInsurance Law 1993, Insurance\nBusiness Law 1996, Immigration rules\nand procedure of Myanmar .etc.', ''], ['FINANCIAL\nSERVICES\n2. Actuarial services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as:\nMyanmar Foreign Investment Law 1988\nand the Myanmar Companies Act 1914,\nMyanmar Insurance Law 1993,\nInsurance Business Law 1996 etc\n2) According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as:\nMyanmar Foreign Investment Law 1988\nand the Myanmar Companies Act 1914,\nMyanmar Insurance Law 1993,\nInsurance Business Law 1996 etc\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['FINANCIAL\nSERVICES SECTOR\n(CPC 811)\n3. Foreign Bank’s\nRepresentative Offices\nservices', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 18 -                                     
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- According to the existing laws &\nregulations such as:\nMyanmar Foreign Investment Law\n1988 and the Myanmar Companies\nAct 1914\nMyanmar Insurance Law 1993\nInsurance Business Law 1996\nMyanmar labour Law &\nImmigration Law etc\n- Services activities under section 3 of\nthe SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.\n4) Unbound', '4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 19 -
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['CONSTRUCTION\nSERVICES\nConstruction Work for Civil\nEngineering Services\n(CPC 513)', '1) Unbound4\n2) None\n3) (a) Commercial presence of foreign\nservice suppliers and / or\nproviders are permitted in\naccordance with the Union of\nMyanmar Foreign Investment\nLaw 1998 , the Myanmar\nCompanies Act 1914 and existing\nlaws and regulations . Under this\nLaw Joint Venture with a\nMyanmar citizen or enterprise\nwith a minimum of 35% equity is\npermitted.\n(b) Foreign organizations and persons\nare not allowed to own land in\nMyanmar. However, land may be\nacquired on long term lease,\ndepending on the individual\ncircumstances.\n4) (a) Subject to the Union of Myanmar\nForeign Investment Law,\nMyanmar Labour Law ,\nImmigration Laws and existing\nlaws and regulations ,\nmanagement, professional and\ntechnical experts, unless\nmentioned otherwise are allowed', '1) None\n2) None\n3) As indicated in the Market Access\ncolumn.\n4) (a) As indicated in the Market\nAccess column.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 20 -                                      
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'to stay up to one year and may\nextendable thereon.\n(b) Preference for entry and temporary\nstay of skilled workers from\ntraditional source of supply.\n(c) Unskilled labour is not allowed in\nMyanmar.', '(b) The Government needs to regulate the\nflow of foreign workers to ensure\nsocial cohesion in Myanmar.\n(c) Unskilled labour is not allowed in\nMyanmar.', ''], ['TELECOMMUNITION\nSERVICES\nCPC 7523\n- Electronic mail\n- Voice mail\n- Electronic Data\nInterchange (EDI)\n- Telex\n- Telegraph\n- On-line information\nand data base\nretrieval\n- Code and protocol\nconversion\n- On-line information\nand / or data\nprocessing', '1) (a) Subject to comply with the\nprovision of rules and regulation\n(b) Must use the National\nTelecommunications Networks\n2) (a) Subject to comply with the\nprovision of rules and regulation\n(b) Must use the National\nTelecommunications Networks', '1) Unbound\n2) None', 'Due to existing\ntelecommunication regulations,\nall kinds of telecommunication\nservices are to be regulated by\nMyanma Posts and\nTelecommunications Department.\nMyanma Posts and\nTelecommunications which is the\nsole service provider of the\ngovernment enterprise.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 21 - 3) -First to negotiate regarding method of investment to install equipment for 3) Foreign investors should bring in all kinds of equipment relating to services. They  
 Modes of Supply:         1) Cross-border supply           2) Consumption abroad          3)  Commercial presence           4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitation on Market Access', 'Limitation on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'the provision of services.\nAccording to existing regulation\nreinvestment pro-gramme has to be\nexercised on repayment scheme. No\nexclusive right will be allowed.\n- Services activities under section 3\nof the SEEs Law are restricted.\nHowever, those activities may be\npermitted by Cabinet notification\naccording to the section 4 of the\nsaid law.\n4) (a) Only member of management and\nrelated skilled technician will be\nallowed to enter to carry out the\nactivities. Foreign companies can\nestablished representative offices\nafter registration in proper way,\nbut these offices will not be\nallowed to do other business\nactivities.\n(b) All those services are to be\nprovided and operated by\nMyanma Posts and\nTelecommunications.\n(c) Subject to the provision of the\nUnion of Myanmar Foreign\nInvestment Law, Myanmar\nLabour Law, Immigration Laws;\nmanagement and existing laws\nand regulations, professional and\ntechnical experts are allowed to\nstay up to permission.', 'shall be subject to laws, rules and\nregulations concerning investment,\ntaxation, immigration and labour.\n4) (a) As indicated in the Market\nAccess column.\n(b) The Government needs to regulate the\nflow of foreign workers to ensure\nsocial cohesion in Myanmar.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 22 -
 KA-ATS/SC1/MYA  - 23 -
 KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   ________________________________________________________________________         THE PHILIPPINES  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                 
 PHILIPPINES – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['Unbound* means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS INCLUDED\nIN THIS SCHEDULE', '3) In Activities Expressly Reserved by Law to\nCitizens of the Philippines (i.e. foreign\nequity is limited to a minority share):\nThe participation of foreign investors in the\ngoverning body of any corporation engaged\nin activities expressly reserved to citizens\nof the Philippines by law shall be limited to\nthe proportionate share of foreign capital of\nsuch entities.\nAll executive and managing officers must\nbe citizens of the Philippines.\nAcquisition of Land\nAll lands of the public domain are owned\nby the State.\nOnly citizens of the Philippines or\ncorporations or association at least 60 per\ncent of whose capital is owned by such\ncitizens may own land other than public\nlands and acquire public lands through\nlease.\nForeign investors may lease only private-\nowned lands.', '3) Access to Domestic Credit\nA foreign firm, engaged in non-\nmanufacturing activities availing\nitself of peso borrowings, shall\nobserve, at the time of borrowing, the\nprescribed 50:50 debt-to-equity ratio.\nForeign firms covered are:\na) Partnerships, more than 40 per\ncent of whose capital is owned by\nnon-Filipino citizens; and\nb) Corporations, more than 40 per\ncent of whose total subscribed\ncapital stock is owned by non-\nFilipino citizens.\nThis requirement does not apply to banks\nand non-bank financial intermediaries\n1),2),3),4) All measures taken by local\ngovernment units are unbound.\n1), 2),3),4) All measures governing\npermanent residents are unbound.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 2 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Entry and Temporary Stay of Natural\nPersons Supplying Services\nNon-resident aliens may be admitted to the\nPhilippines for the supply of a service after\na determination of the non-availability of a\nperson in the Philippines who is competent,\nable and willing, at the time of application,\nto perform the services for which the alien\nis desired\n1),2),3),4) All measures taken by local\ngovernment units are unbound.\n1),2),3),4) All measures governing permanent\nresidents are unbound.', '', ''], ['II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC SECTION', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['All subsectors', '', '1) Service Outputs: For professions with\nspecific service outputs (e.g., plans,\nspecifications, audit reports), such\noutputs shall be recognized by the\nPhilippine Government only if the\nforeign professional is registered with\nthe Professional Regulation\nCommission (PRC).', ''], ['', '4) Upon recommendation of the concerned\nProfessional Regulatory Board (PRB), the\nPRC may approve registration of and', '4) Upon recommendation of the\nconcerned PRB, the PRC may\napprove registration of and', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 3 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'authorize issuance of certificate of\nregistration/license and professional\nidentification card with or without\nexamination to a foreigner who is\nregistered under the laws of his\nstate/country and whose certificate of\nregistration issued therein has not been\nsuspended/revoked: provided,\n• Requirements for registration/ licensing in\nsaid foreign state/ country are substantially\nthe same as those required/ contemplated\nby laws of the Philippines and that the\nlaws of such foreign state/country allow\ncitizens of the Philippines to practice the\nprofession on the same basis and grant the\nsame privileges as those enjoyed by\nsubjects or citizens of such foreign\ncountry/state; same basis and grant the\nsame privileges as those enjoyed by\nsubjects or citizens of such foreign\ncountry/state;\n• That the Commission may, upon\nrecommendation of the Board concerned,\nauthorize the issuance of a certification/\nlicense or special temporary permit to:', 'authorize issuance of certificate of\nregistration/ license and professional\nidentification card with or without\nexamination to a foreigner who is\nregistered under the laws of his\nstate/country and whose certificate\nof registration issued therein has not\nbeen suspended/revoked: provided,\n• Requirements for registration/\nlicensing in said foreign\nstate/country are substantially the\nsame as those\nrequired/contemplated by laws of\nthe Philippines and that the laws of\nsuch foreign state/country allow\ncitizens of the Philippines to\npractice the profession on the same\nbasis and grant the same privileges\nas those enjoyed by subjects or\ncitizens of such foreign\ncountry/state; same basis and grant\nthe same privileges as those enjoyed\nby subjects or citizens of such\nforeign country/state;\n• That the Commission may, upon\nrecommendation of the Board\nconcerned, authorize the issuance of\na certification/ license or special\ntemporary permit to:', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 4 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- Foreign professionals who desire to\npractice their professions in the country\nunder reciprocity and other\ninternational agreements.\n- Consultants in foreign funded, joint-\nventure or foreign assisted projects of\nthe government\n- Employees of Philippine/ foreign\nprivate firms/ institutions pursuant to\nlaw, or health professionals engaged in\nhumanitarian mission for a limited\nperiod of time\n• Agencies/organizations/ individuals\nwhether public or private, who secure the\nservices of a foreign professional for\nreasons aforementioned shall be\nresponsible for securing a special permit\nfrom the PRC.', '- Foreign professionals who desire\nto practice their professions in\nthe country under reciprocity\nand other international\nagreements.\n- Consultants in foreign funded,\njoint-venture or foreign assisted\nprojects of the government\n- Employees of Philippine/ foreign\nprivate firms/ institutions\npursuant to law, or health\nprofessionals engaged in\nhumanitarian mission for a\nlimited period of time\n• That agencies/organizations\nindividuals whether public or\nprivate, who secure the services of a\nforeign professional for reasons\naforementioned shall be responsible\nfor securing a special permit from\nthe PRC.', ''], ['F. OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Services Related to Energy Distribution\n(CPC 887)\nEnergy distribution networks such as\npipelines for transmission, distribution', '1) Unbound*', '1) Unbound*', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 5 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['and supply of natural gas, and power\ntransmission and distribution systems', '2) None\n3) Up to 40 percent foreign equity\nparticipation is allowed.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply.\n4) Employment of foreign professionals:\nAs indicated in the horizontal section for\nProfessional Services.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal section\nshall also apply.', '2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n4) Employment of foreign\nprofessionals:\nAs indicated in the horizontal\nsection for Professional\nServices.', ''], ['Services Related to Power Generation\nConstruction of Power Plants (as\nprovided under the BOT scheme)', "1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Up to 100 percent foreign equity is allowed\nunder the BOT scheme. However, a Special\nContractor's License is required to\nundertake construction activities.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal section\nshall also apply.", '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) A Contractor’s License (Regular or\nSpecial) issued by the Philippine\nContractors Accreditation Board\n(PCAB) is required to undertake\nconstruction activities.\nA. The Regular Contractor’s\nLicense is reserved for, and\nissued only to, Filipino sole\nproprietorships or', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 6 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound', "partnerships/corporations with at\nleast 60 percent Filipino equity\nand duly organized and existing\nunder and by virtue of\nPhilippine laws.\nB. A Special Contractor's License\nmay be given to foreign\ncompanies on a project-to-\nproject basis such as BOT.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply.\n4) Unbound", ''], ['2. COMMUNICATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['All subsectors', '3) No franchise, certificate, or any other form\nof authorization for the operation of a\npublic utility shall be granted except to\ncitizens of the Philippines or to\ncorporations or associations organized\nunder the laws of the Philippines at least\n60 per cent of whose capital is owned by\nsuch citizens\n3), 4) Limitations listed in the horizontal section\nshall also apply', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 7 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A./B. POSTAL/COURIER SERVICES', None, None, None], ['a. Domestic Mail Services\n1) Ordinary Mail\n2) Registered Mail1\n3) Express Mail\n4) Domestic Parcel\n5) Business Reply2\n6) Printed Matters\nb. International Mail Services\n1) Ordinary Mail\n2) Registered Mail 3\n3) Express Mail\n4) Printed Matters\n5) International Parcels\nc. Money Order Service\n(Domestic and International)4', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements:\nA. Foreign equity is permitted up to 40\npercent; and\nB. Philippine Government authority to\noperate private express and/or\nmessengerial delivery services.\n4) Provision of postal/courier services is\nreserved only to Filipino citizens.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements and conditions:\nA. The number of non-Filipino\ncitizens in the Board of\nDirectors of an entity shall be\nproportionate to the aggregate\nshare of foreign capital of that\nentity; and\nB. All executives and managers\nmust be citizens of the\nPhilippines.\n4) Provision of postal/courier services is\nreserved only to Filipino citizens.', ''], ['C. TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Voice mail\nOn-line information and data base\nretrieval\nElectronic data exchange', '1) Only through duly enfranchised and\ncertificated domestic public\ntelecommunications carriers', '1)None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 8 -                                                 
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Videotex', '2) None\n3) Operation subject to securing of:\ni) Franchise from the Congress of the\nPhilippines\nii) Certificate of Public Convenience and\nNecessity (CPCN) from the National\nTelecommunications Commission\n4) None', '2)None\n3)None\n4) None', ''], ['The following services are offered only\non a facilities basis, for public use, using\neither wired or wireless technology\nexcept cable television (CATV).\na. Voice telephone services (7521)\n• Local services\n• Toll services\n• Domestic\n• International\nb. Packet-switched data transmission\nservices (7523**)', '1) Unbound5\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements and conditions:\nA. Franchise from Congress of the\nPhilippines\nB. Certificate of Public Convenience and\nNecessity (CPCN) from the National\nTelecommunications Commission\nC. Foreign equity is permitted up to 40', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements and conditions:\nA. The number of non-Filipino\ncitizens in the Board of\nDirectors of an entity shall be\nproportionate to the aggregate\nshare of foreign capital of that\nentity.\nB. All executives and managers', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 9 -                                                 
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['c. Circuit-switched data transmission\nservices (7523**)\nd. Telex Services (7523**)\ne. Telegraph Services (7522)\nf. Facsimile services (7521**+7529**)\ng. Private Leased Circuit Services\n(7522**+7523)\n• Cellular Mobile Telephone Service\n(75213)\n• Satellite services', 'percent.\nD. Resale of private leased lines is not\nallowed6.\nE. Private leased circuit services shall not\nbe connected to a public network\n(PSTN).\nF. Call back, dial back and other similar\nschemes, which result in the same\noperation, are not authorized.\nG. Subject to the availability and efficient\nutilization of radio frequencies.\nH. Only duly enfranchised and certificated\ntelecommunications, broadcast and/or\ncable TV entities can access satellite\nspace segment service providers.\nI. Philippine satellite operators shall be\ngiven the preference to provide the\nspace segment capacity requirements of\nenfranchised entity after all factors are\nequally considered.\nJ. Satellite space segment service\nprovisioning in the Philippines shall be\non the basis of reciprocal arrangements.\n4) Service suppliers must be Filipino citizens.', 'must be citizens of the\nPhilippines.\n4) Service suppliers must be Filipino\ncitizens.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 10 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Data and message transmission services\n• Data network services (75231)\n• Electronic message and\ninformation services (75232)', '1) Unbound7\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements and conditions:\na. Franchise from Congress of the\nPhilippines\nb. Certificate of Public Convenience and\nNecessity (CPCN) from the National\nTelecommunications Commission\nc. Foreign equity is permitted up to 40\npercent.\nd. Resale of private leased lines is not\nallowed8.\ne. Private leased circuit services shall not be\nconnected to a public network (PSTN).\nf. Call back, dial back and other similar\nschemes, which result in the same\noperation, are not authorized.\ng. Subject to the availability and efficient\nutilization of radio frequencies.\nh. Only duly enfranchised and certificated', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Entry is subject to the following\nrequirements and conditions:\nA. The number of non-Filipino\ncitizens in the Board of\nDirectors of an entity shall be\nproportionate to the aggregate\nshare of foreign capital of that\nentity.\nB. All executives and managers\nmust be citizens of the\nPhilippines.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 11 -                                                 
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'telecommunications, broadcast and/or\ncable TV entities can access satellite\nspace segment service providers.\ni. Philippine satellite operators shall be\ngiven the preference to provide the space\nsegment capacity requirements of\nenfranchised entity after all factors are\nequally considered.\nj. Satellite space segment service\nprovisioning in the Philippines shall be\non the basis of reciprocal arrangements.\n4) Service suppliers must be Filipino citizens.', '4) Service suppliers must be Filipino\ncitizens.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 12 -    
 KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 13 -PHILIPPINE REFERENCE PAPER ON REGULATORY PRINCIPLES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES  The commitments in telecommunication services are in accordance with the General Agreement on Trade in Services and its Annex on Telecommunications. In Support of market access commitments undertaken, the following principles will form the basis for the regulatory framework in basic telecommunications  1.  Competitive safeguard   Appropriated measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  2.  Interconnection    In order to achieve viable, efficient, reliable and universal telecommunications services, a fair and reasonable interconnection of facilities of authorized public network operators and other providers of telecommunications services shall be provided.   Interconnection shall be at any technically feasible point in the network, under non-discriminatory terms and conditions, in timely fashion, and on terms and conditions that are fair, transparent and reasonable.   A service supplier requesting interconnection with another supplier will have recourse after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rated for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously  3.  Universal Service   Universal service obligations, as may be defined by the appropriate Authority, shall be administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner.    Authorized international gateway and mobile cellular telephone service providers are required by law to install a set number of local exchange line in designated areas.  4.  Public availability of licensing criteria   Where a license is required, the following shall be made publicly available:   (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a license: (b) the terms and conditions of individual licenses  The reasons for the denial of a license will be made to the applicant upon request.  5.  Independent regulators  
 KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 14 - The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic communications services. The decisions of and procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.   The regulation of telecommunication suppliers shall rely principally on an administrative process that is stable, transparent and fair, giving due emphasis to technical, legal, economic and financial considerations, and with due regard to the observance of due process at all times.   A national consultative forum shall be maintained to allow interaction among the telecommunications industries, user groups, and academic and research institutions on important issues in the field of communications.  6.  Allocation and use of scarce resources   Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, which are frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required. 
   Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3, CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Constructions for mining and\nmanufacturing (5136**)\nConstruction for large-scale mining\ndevelopment projects covered by\nFinancial and Technical Assistance\nAgreements (FTAA)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Up to 100 percent foreign equity\nparticipation is allowed, provided that\nthe requirements of the FTAA under\nthe Philippine Mining Act (RA 7942)\nare met. However, a Special\nContractor’s License is required to\nundertake construction activities.\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) A Contractor’s License (Regular or\nSpecial) issued by the PCAB is\nrequired to undertake construction\nactivities. The Regular Contractor’s\nLicense is reserved for, and issued\nonly to, Filipino sole proprietorships or\npartnerships/corporations with at least\n60 Filipino equity and duly organized\nand existing under and by virtue of\nPhilippine laws. A Special\nContractor’s License may be given to\nforeign companies on a project-to-\nproject basis.\n4) Unbound', ''], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Sewerage Services (CPC 9401)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) For participation in public and/or\nprivate sewerage services, up to 40%\nforeign participation', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 15 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'For participation in public and/or\nprivate sewerage services in Metro\nManila, it is subject to negotiations and\nagreement with Concessionnaires (i.e.\nManila Water and Maynilad) and\napproval/regulation by the\nMetropolitan Waterworks and\nSewerage System (MWSS). If the\nparties agreed (MWSS and the two\nconcessionnaires), amendment of the\nConcession Agreement shall be made.\nFor areas outside Metro Manila, entry\ninto public and/or private sewerage\nservices is subject to the following:\ni) Where local Water Districts (LWDs)\nexist, participation or entry should\nbe in the form of partnership or\ncorporation which may then enter\ninto a Build-Operate-Transfer\n(BOT) Scheme or other similar\nschemes or other forms of\ncontractual\nagreements/arrangements with the\nLWDs.\nii) In the absences of existing LWDs,\nentry should still be in the form of\npartnership or corporation;\nhowever, the contractual\nagreements/ arrangements that may\nbe entered into will be with local\ngovernment unit/s concerned.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 16 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound', '4) Unbound', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\nThe commitments in financial services are in accordance with the General Agreement on Trade in Services and its Annex on Financial Services.', None, None, None], ['All sub-sectors', '3) The appropriate regulatory authority\nin the Philippines shall determine\nwhether public interest and economic\nconditions justify authorization for\nthe establishment of commercial\npresence or expansion of existing\noperations in banking and other\nfinancial services in the Philippines.\nFor foreign financial institutions with\ninternationally recognized standing,\nsuch determination shall include a\ndemonstrated capacity to contribute\nto the attainment of Philippine\ndevelopment objectives particularly\nin the promotion of trade,\ninvestments and appropriate\ntechnology transfer; and the country\nof incorporation has strategic trade\nand investment relations with the\nPhilippines.', '', ''], ['', 'In banking, the Monetary Board shall\nensure that at all times seventy per\ncent (70%) of the resources or assets\nof the Philippine banking system is\nheld by domestic banks which are at\nleast majority-owned by Filipinos.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 17 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(3),(4) Limitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply.', '', ''], ['BANKING AND OTHER FINANCIAL SERVICES (EXCLUDING INSURANCE)', None, None, None], ['Commercial banking\n- Acceptance of deposits and other\nrepayable funds from the public\n- Lending of all types, including\nconsumer credit mortgage credit, and\nfinancing of commercial transaction', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) I. Forms of commercial presence\nA foreign bank, widely-owned and\npublicly listed, may avail itself only\nof one form of commercial presence\nat a time. However, this shall not\npreclude secondary investment in the\nequity of a locally incorporated bank\nnot exceeding thirty per cent (30%)\nof voting stock or forty per cent\n(40%) upon approval by the\nPresident of the Philippines.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', ''], ['- All payment and money\ntransmission services, including credit,\ncharge and debit cards, travellers\ncheques and bankers drafts\n- Guarantees and commitments\n- Trading for own account or for\naccount of customers, whether on an\nexchange, in an over-the-counter', '(a) Acquisition of up to sixty percent\n(60%) of the voting stock of an\nexisting domestic bank.\n(b) Investing in up to fifty-one percent\n(51%)\nof the voting stock of a new locally\nincorporated banking subsidiary.\nExisting investments of foreign\nbanks', '4) A non-Filipino citizen employed\nas officer or assigned to do\ntechnical functions shall have two\nFilipino understudies.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 18 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ["market or otherwise, the following:\n- money market instruments\n(bank's own promissory notes,\nrepurchase agreements, and\ncertificates of assignment/participation\nwith recourse);\n- foreign exchange;", 'beyond the fifty-one percent (51%)\nlevel\nwill be maintained at their existing\nlevels.', '', ''], ['- derivative products including, but\nnot limited to, futures and\noptions;\n- exchange rate and interest rate\ninstruments, including products\nsuch as swaps, forward rate\nagreements; and\n- other allowable negotiable\ninstruments and financial assets.', 'The majority of the members of the Board\nof Directors of a locally incorporated bank\nshall be citizens of the Philippines.\nFor foreign service suppliers other than\nbanks, aggregate share in the voting stock\nof a locally incorporated bank shall be\nlimited to thirty per cent (30%) or up to\nforty per cent (40%) upon approval by the\nPresident of the Philippines. Shareholding\nin a locally incorporated bank must not\nexceed twenty per cent (20%) for an\nindividual and thirty per cent\n(30%) for a corporation.', '', ''], ['- Participation in issues of all kinds\nof securities, including underwriting\nand placement as agent (whether\npublicly or privately) and provision of\nservices related to such issues\n- Asset management, such as cash\nor portfolio management, all forms\nof collective investment management,\ncustodial, depository and trust', 'II. Scope of operations\nPrior authorization is required for the\nfollowing:\n- acceptance of deposit substitutes and\nother repayable funds from the\npublic;\n- guarantees and commitments;', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 19 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['services', '- performance of trust, investment\nmanagement and other fiduciary\nfunctions;\n- foreign currency deposit unit\noperations;\n- derivatives activities.\nUnderwriting (firm and best efforts basis)\nmay be performed only by commercial\nbanks with expanded commercial banking\nauthority.\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.', '4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', ''], ['Investment houses:\n- Purchase and sell, distribute or\narrange to distribute on a\nguaranteed basis securities of\nother corporations\n- Participate as soliciting dealer or\nselling group member in tender\noffers, block sales, or exchange\noffering of securities\n- Deal in options, rights or warrants\nrelating to securities', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Must be organized as a stock\ncorporation.\nSubject to foreign equity limitation of\nfifty-one per cent (51%).\nThe majority of the members of the\nBoard of Directors shall be citizens\nof the Philippines.\nAn investment house is not allowed', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 20 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Act as financial consultant,\ninvestment adviser or broker\n- Act as portfolio manager/financial\nagent\n- Design pension, profit-sharing and\nother employee benefits plans', 'to engage in banking operations.\nPrior authorization is required for the\nperformance of quasi-banking\nfunctions.\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.', '4) Unbound, except as provided in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Financial advisory services as follows:\n-credit reference and analysis\n-investment and portfolio research and\nadvice', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Required to be organized as a\ncommercial bank, or an investment\nhouse, or a non-bank financial\nintermediary.\nFor commercial banks, all limitations\nmentioned under mode 3 above for\ncommercial banks shall apply.\nFor investment houses, all limitations\nmentioned under mode 3 above for\ninvestment houses shall apply.\nForeign equity participation is bound\nat forty per cent (40%) for non-bank\nfinancial intermediary.\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 21 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Factoring', "1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Must be performed by a financing\ncompany only, organized either as a\ncorporation or general partnership.\nSubject to foreign equity limitation of\nforty per cent (40%).\nMembership of non-Filipino citizens\nin the Board of Directors is limited to\none-third of the Board's total\nmembership in the case of a\ncorporation; no foreign managing\npartners in the case of a general\npartnership.\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', ''], ['Financial leasing', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Must be performed by a financing\ncompany only, organized either as a\ncorporation or general partnership.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 22 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "Subject to foreign equity limitation of\nforty per cent (40%).\nMembership of non-Filipino citizens\nin the Board of Directors is limited to\none third of the Board's total\nmembership in the case of a\ncorporation; no foreign managing\npartners in the case of a general\npartnership.\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.", '4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', ''], ['Money broking and foreign exchange\nbroking', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Required to be organized as a\ncommercial bank or a non-bank\nfinancial intermediary.\nFor commercial banks, all other\nlimitations mentioned in mode 3\nabove for commercial banks shall\napply.\nForeign equity participation is bound\nat forty per cent (40%) for non-bank\nfinancial intermediary.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 23 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section.', '4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', ''], ['Credit card services', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Required to be organized as a\ncommercial bank or a non-bank\nfinancial intermediary.\nFor commercial banks, all other\nlimitations mentioned under mode 3\nabove for commercial banks shall\napply.\nForeign equity participation is bound\nat forty per cent (40%) for non-bank\nfinancial intermediary .\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) A non-Filipino citizen employed as\nofficer or assigned to do technical\nfunctions shall have two Filipino\nunderstudies.', ''], ['Promotion and provision of\ninformation by a representative office\nabout the services or products offered\nby a foreign bank', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 24 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Securities dealership/brokerage\n- Trading for own account or for\naccount of customers, whether in\nan exchange, in an\nover-the-counter market or\notherwise, the following:\n- Equities and its derivative\nproducts such as warrants and\noptions\n- Transferable securities', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Required to be organized as an\ninvestment house or as a securities\nbroker/dealer corporation or\npartnership.\nFor investment houses, all other\nlimitations mentioned under mode (3)\nabove for investment houses shall\napply.\nFor securities broker/dealer - must be\na member of the stock exchange.\nMembership is limited to 200.\nUnderwriting is allowed only on\nbest-efforts basis.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Participation in issues of all kinds of\nsecurities, including underwriting and\nplacement as agent (whether publicly\nor privately) and provision of services\nrelated to such issues', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Required to be organized as an\nInvestment House or as a securities', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 25 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'broker/dealer corporation or\npartnership.\nFor investment houses, all other\nlimitations mentioned under mode 3\nabove for investment houses shall\napply.\nFor securities broker/dealer - must be\na member of the stock exchange.\nMembership is limited to 200.\nUnderwriting is allowed only on\nbest-effort basis.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section.', ''], ['Performance of the functions of stock\ntransfer agent such as but not limited\nto monitoring the issuance and transfer\nof stock certificates', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Must be organized either as a\ncorporation or partnership with at least\none certified public accountant duly\nlicensed in the Philippines.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Transactions of an issuer primarily\nengaged in the business of investing,\nreinvesting or trading in securities', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 26 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) Must be performed by an investment\ncompany.\nForeign equity participation is bound\nat forty per cent (40%).\nAll members of the Board of Directors\nmust be citizens of the Philippines.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '3) None\n4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section.', ''], ['Sale of contracts for the payment of\nbenefits or performance of future\nservices such as life, education,\npension and internment plans', '1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Foreign equity participation is bound\nat forty per cent (40%).\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as those provided in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. ALL INSURANCE AND INSURANCE-RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['All Subsectors', '3),4)Limitations listed in the all-sector\nhorizontal section and all financial\nservices section shall apply.\n3) Limitations in market access listed in\nthe specific sub-sectors below shall\nnot apply to existing wholly or\nmajority foreign-owned authorized\ninsurance/reinsurance companies as', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 27 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'of the entry into force of this WTO\nFinancial Services agreement.\n4) Qualified Non-Filipino citizens may\nbe employed for technical positions\nonly within the first five (5) years of\noperation of the enterprise, their stay\nnot to exceed five (5) years upon\nentry.', '', ''], ['Life insurance as follows:\n- ordinary\n- group\n- industrial\n- health and accident\n- annuities', '1) Risks located in the Philippines shall\nbe insured with the companies\nauthorized* to transact business in\nthe Philippines.\n2) Same as (1) above\n3) Market access is limited to:\nA. Acquisition of up to fifty one\npercent (51%) of the voting stock\nof an existing domestic insurance\ncompany.\nB. Investing in up to fifty one\npercent (51%) of the voting stock\nof a new locally incorporated\ninsurance company.\nParticipation of non-Filipino citizens', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 28 -                                                 
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "in the Board of Directors of a locally\nincorporated insurance company is\nlimited to one-third of the Board's\ntotal membership.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section.", '4) Unbound', ''], ['General non-life, as follows:\n- fire and allied risks/\nearthquakes/shock/typhoon/floods/\ntidal wave\n- Marine Ocean marine/Inland\nmarine/ Marine hull Aviation\n- Casualty motor car/ health and\naccident/ burglary/ engineering\nmiscellaneous\n- Suretyship fidelity/surety bonds', '1) Except for marine hull and marine\ncargo insurance, risks located in the\nPhilippines shall be insured with the\ncompanies authorized* to transact\nbusiness in the Philippines.\n2) Same as (1) above\n3) Market access is limited to:\nA. Acquisition of up to fifty one per\ncent (51%) of the voting stock of\nan existing domestic insurance\ncompany.\nB. Investing in up to fifty one per\ncent (51%) of the voting stock of\na new locally incorporated\ninsurance company.\nParticipation of non-Filipino\ncitizens in the Board of Directors of\na locally incorporated insurance\ncompany is limited to one third of', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 29 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "the Board's total membership.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section", '4) Unbound', ''], ['Insurance auxiliary services, as\nfollows:\n- actuarial consultancies\n- average adjustors', "1) Commercial presence is required.\n2) None\n3) Subject to foreign equity limitation\nof forty per cent (40%).\nParticipation of non-Filipino citizens\nin the Board of Directors of domestic\ncompanies is limited to one third of\nthe Board's total membership.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section.", '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Reinsurance/ Retrocession', '1) Priority cessions to authorized\ninsurance/reinsurance companies.\nForeign unauthorized reinsurers\nshould be represented by resident\nagents duly registered with the\nInsurance Commission.\nTen per cent (10%) of total insurance\ncessions to foreign unauthorized\nreinsurers should be ceded to the\nNational Reinsurance Corporation of\nthe Philippines.', '1) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 30 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "2) Same as (1) above\n3) Market access is limited to:\nA. Acquisition of up to forty per\ncent (40%) of the voting stock\nof an existing domestic\nreinsurance company.\nB. Investing in up to forty per cent\n(40%) of the voting stock of a\nnew locally incorporated\nreinsurance company.\nParticipation of non-Filipino citizens\nin the Board of Directors of a locally\nincorporated reinsurance company is\nlimited to one third of the Board's\ntotal membership.\n4) Unbound, except as those provided\nin the horizontal section.", '2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Hotel, resort, pensions houses, tourist\ninn apartelles lodging (CPC No.\n64110)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitment', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitment', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 31 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitment', '4) None', ''], ['Restaurants (CPC 6421-64310)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Foreign nationals may wholly operate\na restaurant provided that the\nminimum paid in capital of US$2.5\nmillion is complied; provided further\nthat pre-qualification requirements\nare complied in accordance with\nappropriate government agencies.\nForeign nationals may also establish\nbranches provided that the minimum\npaid in capital of US$ 830,000.00 per\nrestaurant are complied.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection also apply.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Foreign nationals may wholly operate a\nrestaurant provided that the minimum\npaid in capital of US$2.5 million are\nmaintained.\nPrior notification for cessation of\noperation\nForeign nationals may also establish\nadditional branches provided that the\nminimum paid in capital of\nUS$ 830,000 per restaurant are\nmaintained.\nPrior notification for opening and\nclosing of branches/stores.\nProvided further that 30% local\ninventory requirement, public offering\nrequirement under certain conditions\nand prohibitions to engage in certain\nrestaurant activities are complied.\nEvery registered foreign restaurant are\nto submit to the Department of Trade\nand Industry the following reports:', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 32 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) None, except as provided in the\nhorizontal commitment', 'a. A general information sheet in the\nprescribed form showing, among\nothers, the accredited stores of the\nenterprise and the status of\noperations of the entity;\nb. An audited financial statement and\nincome tax return;\nc. Certification by responsible officer\nof the company showing the\nmaintenance of the required\nminimum capital unless the foreign\ninvestor has notified the SEC and\nthe DTI of its intention to repatriate\nits capital and cease operations in\nthe Philippines\nQualified foreign restaurant are not\nallowed to engage in certain retailing\nactivities outside their accredited\nbranches through the use of mobile or\nrolling stores or carts, the use of sales\nrepresentatives, door-to-door selling,\nand sari-sari stores and such other\nsimilar retailing activities.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall apply.\n4) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 33 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Travel Agencies (74710)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments for\nProfessional Services\n4) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal commitments\n4) None', ''], ['Professional Congress Organizers', '1) None\n2) None\n3) 60% foreign equity is allowed\n4) Subject to horizontal commitment', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['All subsectors', '3) No franchise, certificate, or any other\nform of authorization for the operation\nof a public utility shall be granted\nexcept to citizens of the Philippines or\nto corporations or associations\norganized under the laws of the\nPhilippines at least 60 per cent of\nwhose capital is owned by such\ncitizens.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 34 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Only aliens qualified to hold technical\npositions may be employed within the\nfirst five years of operation of the\nenterprise, their stay not to exceed\nfive (5) years upon entry.\nEach employed alien should have at\nleast two (2) Filipino understudies.', '', ''], ['', '3), 4) Limitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply', '', ''], ['A. MARITIME TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['International Transport (passenger and\nfreight), except cabotage transport, and\ngovernment-owned cargoes9', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) For specialized vessels, aliens may be\nemployed as supernumeraries only for a\nperiod of six months.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['Leasing/rental of vessels without crew', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Bareboat charter or lease contract\nsubject to approval by the Maritime\nIndustry Authority (MARINA)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 35 -                                                 
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) None', '4) None', ''], ['Maintenance and repair of vessels', '1) Unbound*\n2) Any repairs, conversion or drydocking\nof Philippine-owned or registered\nvessels are required to be done at\ndomestic ship repair yards registered\nwith the Maritime Industry Authority\n(MARINA)\n3) None\n4) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['C. AIR TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Leasing/rental of aircraft without crew', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Lease contract subject to approval by\nthe Civil Aeronautics Board\n4) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['Maintenance and repair of aircraft', '1) Unbound*\n2) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 36 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) None\n4) None', '3) None\n4) None', ''], ['General Sales and Cargo Sales Agency', '1) Commercial presence is required\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['RAIL TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Passenger and freight transport', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['Maintenance and repair of rail transport\nequipment', '1) Unbound*\n2) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 37 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) None\n4) None', '3) None\n4) None', ''], ['ROAD TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Passenger and freight transport', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Provisional authority/certificate of\npublic convenience must be secured\nfrom the Land Transportation\nFranchising and Regulatory Board\n(LTFRB)\nNew entrants are subject to economic\nneeds test, as follows:\na) the need to provide protection to\nb) the route measured capacity test\nfor number of vehicles.\n4) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 38 - Maintenance and repair of road vehicles  1) Unbound*  2) None    1) Unbound*   2) None   
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) None\n4) None', '3) None\n4) None', ''], ['I. OTHER TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Pipeline Transport (CPC 713)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Up to 40 percent foreign equity\nparticipation is allowed.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply.\n4) Employment of foreign professionals:\nAs indicated in the horizontal section\nfor Professional Services.\nLimitations listed in the horizontal\nsection shall also apply.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n4) Employment of foreign\nprofessionals:\nAs indicated in the horizontal section\nfor Professional Services', ''], ['H. SERVICES AUXILIARY TO ALL MODES OF TRANSPORT', None, None, None], ['Cargo handling services\nStorage and warehousing services\nContainer yard and depot services', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 39 -
 Modes of supply 1) Cross-border supply   2) Consumption abroad   3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons  
[['Sector or Sub sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) None', '4) None', ''], ['Freight forwarding services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 40 - 
 MOST-FAVOURED-NATION TREATMENT EXEMPTION LIST  
[['Sector or subsector', 'Description of measure indicating\nits inconsistency with MFN\nProvisions', 'Countries to which the measure\napplies', 'Intended Duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['ALL SECTORS\nEntry and temporary stay of\nnatural persons supplying\nservices', 'A special visa category is provided\nfor traders and investors of countries\nwith which the Philippines has\nconcluded treaties on entry rights for\ntraders and investors.\nUnder this special category, the\nlabor market test is waived and\nsimplified entry procedures are\nprovided.', 'All Countries', 'Expiry date or termination\nof bilateral\ntreaties on entry rights for\ntraders and investors', 'To facilitate entry into the\nPhilippines, on the basis of\nreciprocity, of foreign nationals for\npurposes of trade, investment and\nrelated activities.'], ['Financial Services', None, None, None, None], ['Commercial banking', 'Authorization for financial service\nsuppliers of another member to\nestablish commercial presence in\ncommercial banking shall be subject\nto a reciprocity test.', 'All Countries', 'Indefinite', 'To ensure Philippine financial\nservice suppliers are accorded full\nmarket\naccess and national treatment in\nthe foreign financial service\nmarket.'], ['Investment Houses', 'In approving foreign equity\napplications in Investment Houses,\nthe appropriate regulatory authority\nshall approve such applications only\nif the same or similar rights are\nenjoyed by Philippine nationals in\nthe applicant’s country.', 'All Countries', 'Indefinite', 'To ensure Philippine financial\nservice suppliers are accorded full\nmarket access and national\ntreatment in the foreign financial\nservice market.'], ['Financing Companies', 'Authorization for foreign financial\nservice suppliers to establish\ncommercial presence in commercial\nbanking shall be subject to a\nreciprocity test.', 'All Countries', 'Indefinite', 'To ensure Philippine financial\nservice suppliers are accorded full\nmarket access and national\ntreatment in the foreign financial\nservice market.'], ['Maritime Transport Services', '', '', '', ''], ['Liner cargo trade', 'Executive Order 769 provides for a', 'All countries which have acceded', 'Indefinite', 'Ensure effective participation of']]
AK-ATS/SC1/PHI - 41 -
[['Sector or subsector', 'Description of measure indicating\nits inconsistency with MFN\nProvisions', 'Countries to which the measure\napplies', 'Intended Duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['', 'preferential cargo sharing\narrangement with countries which\nare parties to the UNCTAD Liner\nCode\nUnder the above-mentioned\narrangement, a Party to the\nUNCTAD Liner Code effectively\nimplementing the Code is assured of\nat least 40 percent share of its\nbilateral export and import Liner\ncargo trade with the Philippines.', 'to the UNCTAD Liner Code', '', 'Philippine ocean-going fleet in\nPhilippine liner cargo trade.'], ['Cabotage transport', 'Access to domestic shipping is\nreserved for Philippine owned or\nregistered vessels.\nHowever, limited access to domestic\nshipping is granted to countries with\nwhich the Philippines has concluded\nagreements on Amity, Commerce\nand Navigation.', 'All Countries', 'Expiry date or termination\nof bilateral agreements on\nAmity, Commerce and\nNavigation', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/PHI - 42 -   
 KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         SINGAPORE  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                 
 SINGAPORE - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['Unbound* means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '4) Presence of natural persons unbound,\nexcept for intra-corporate transferees (see\nbelow)\n4) Temporary movement of skilled personnel\nunbound except for the temporary movement\nof intra-corporate transferees at the level of\nmanagers, executives and specialists. Intra-\ncorporate transferees refers to managers,\nexecutives and specialists, as defined below,\nwho are employees of firms that provide\nservices within Singapore through a branch,\nsubsidiary, or affiliate established in\nSingapore and who have been in the prior\nemploy of their firms outside Singapore for a\nperiod of not less than one year immediately\npreceding the date of their application for\nadmission and who are one of the following:', '4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 2 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(a) Managers – persons within an\norganization who primarily direct the\norganization, or a department or sub-\ndivision of the organization, supervise\nand control the work of other supervisory,\nprofessional or managerial employees,\nhave the authority to hire and fire or\nrecommend hiring, firing, or other\npersonnel actions (such as promotion or\nleave authorization), and exercise\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. Does not include first-line\nsupervisors, unless the employees\nsupervised are professionals, nor does it\ninclude employees who primarily perform\ntasks necessary for the provision of the\nservice.\n(b) Executives - persons within the\norganization who primarily direct the\nmanagement of the organization, exercise\nwide latitude in decision-making, and\nreceive only general supervision or\ndirection from higher-level executives,\nthe board of directors, or stockholders of\nthe business. Executives would not\ndirectly perform tasks related to the actual\nprovision of the service or services of the\norganization.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 3 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "(c) Specialists – persons within an\norganization who possess knowledge at\nan advanced level of expertise and who\npossess proprietary knowledge of the\norganization's service, research\nequipment, techniques, or management.\n(Specialists may include, but are not\nlimited to, members of licensed\nprofessions).\nEntry for these intra corporate transferees is\nlimited to a two year period that may be extended\nfor up to three additional years each time for a\ntotal term not exceeding eight years.", '3) Commercial presence, right of establishment and\nmovement of juridical persons are subject\nto compliance with the following\nprovisions:\n- A foreigner who wishes to register a business\nfirm must have a local manager who should be\na Singapore citizen or a Singapore Permanent\nResident or a Singapore Employment Pass\nholder. (However, a foreigner who is a\nSingapore Permanent Resident or a Singapore\nEmployment Pass holder can register a\nbusiness without appointing a local manager.)', ''], ['', '', '- At least one director of the company must be\nlocally resident', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 4 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '1), 2), 3), 4) Specific commitments in market\naccess in any sector or subsector, through any\nmode of delivery, shall not be construed to\noverride the limitations established in the\nfinancial services sector', '- All branches of foreign companies registered in\nSingapore must have at least 2 locally resident\nagents. (To qualify as locally resident, a\nperson should be either a Singapore citizen or\nSingapore Permanent Resident or Singapore\nEmployment Pass holder.)', ''], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services', '', '', ''], ['b. Accounting/Auditing\nServices\n(CPC 8621)', '1) None, other than public accountants must be\neffectively resident in Singapore or at least\none of the partners of the firm / director of\nthe corporation must be effectively resident\nin Singapore.\n2) None\n3) As in mode 1)\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal Section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 5 -c.   Taxation Services        
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Taxation services except for\nother tax-related services\n(CPC 863**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['d. Architectural Services\n(CPC 8671)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Limited Corporations\n- Only registered architect or allied\nprofessionals (Professional Engineers or\nLand Surveyors) shall be director of the\ncorporation\n- Not less than two-thirds or such lower\nproportion as the Minister for National\nDevelopment may specify in relation to any\ncorporation of each class of shares of the\ncorporation shall be beneficially owned by\nand registered architects or allied\nprofessionals who are either directors,\nmanagers or employees of the corporation.\n- Architectural work in Singapore will be under\nthe control and management of a director of\nthe corporation who is a registered architect\nordinarily resident in Singapore and who has\na valid certificate and is registered owner of\nat least one share of the corporation.', '1) None, except that the implementation in\nSingapore of architecture works which require\napproval by the authorities has to be carried out\nby an architect who is physically present in\nSingapore\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 6 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Unlimited Corporation\n- Only registered architects or allied\nprofessionals (Professional Engineers or\nLand Surveyors) shall be a director of the\ncorporation', '', ''], ['', '- The articles of association of the corporation\nprovide that any person who is neither a\nregistered architect nor an allied professional,\nor is a nominee of such a person, or is not a\ndirector, manager or employee of the\ncorporation, shall not be registered as a\nmember of that corporation\n- The business of the corporation, so far as it\nrelates to architectural services, will be under\nthe control and management of a director of\nthe corporation who:\n- is a registered architect ordinarily\nresident in Singapore;\n- has in force a practising certificate\nauthorizing him to engage in the\npractice of architecture; and\n- is a member, or a registered owner of at\nleast one share, of the corporation\nPartnership\n- The partnership consists of only registered\narchitects with valid practising certificates\nand allied professionals; and', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 7 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- The supply of architectural services in\nSingapore will be under the control and\nManagement of a partner who is a Registered\narchitect, ordinarily resident in Singapore and\nwho has a valid practising certificate.', '', ''], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound', ''], ['e. Engineering Services\n(CPC 8672**)\nThe sectors covered by\nEngineering services are:\n(a) Civil engineering services\n(b) Production engineering\nservices\n(c) Mechanical engineering\nservices\n(d) Electrical engineering\nservices\n(e) Electronic engineering\nservices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Limited Corporations\n- Not less than 80% of the directors of the\ncorporation shall be registered Professional\nEngineers or allied professionals (registered\nArchitects or Land Surveyors).', '1) None, other than engineers should be\neffectively resident in Singapore\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 8 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(f) Aeronautical engineering\nservices\n(g) Marine engineering\nservices\n(h) Naval architectural\nengineering services\n(i) Industrial engineering\nservices\n(j) Chemical engineering\nservices', '- Not less than two-thirds or such lower\nproportion as the Minister for National\nDevelopment may specify in relation to any\ncorporation of each class of shares of the\ncorporation shall be beneficially owned by\nand registered in the names of registered\nProfessional Engineers or allied professionals\n- Professional engineering work in Singapore\nwill be under the control and Management of\na director of the Corporation who is a\nregistered owner of at least one share of the\ncorporation; who is a registered Professional\nEngineer ordinarily resident in Singapore and\nwho has a valid Certificate\nUnlimited Corporation\n- Only registered Professional Engineers or\nallied professionals (registered Architects or\nLand Surveyors) shall be a director of the\ncorporation\n- The articles of association of the corporation\nprovide that any person who is neither a\nregistered Professional Engineer nor an allied\nprofessional, or is a nominee of such a\nperson, or is not a director, manager or\nemployee of the corporation, shall not be\nregistered as a member of that corporation', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 9 - - The business of the corporation, so far as it relates to professional engineering work, will be under the control and management of a director of the corporation who:   
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- is a registered Professional Engineer\nordinarily resident in Singapore;\n- has in force a practising certificate\nauthorizing him to engage in such\nprofessional engineering work; and\n- is a member, or a registered owner of at\nleast one share, of the corporation\nPartnership\n- The partnership consists of only registered\nProfessional Engineers with valid practising\ncertificates and allied professionals; and\n- Professional engineering work in each\ndiscipline of engineering in Singapore will be\nunder the control and management of a\npartner who is a registered Professional\nEngineer in the relevant discipline, ordinarily\nresident in Singapore and who has a valid\npractising certificate.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '4) Unbound', ''], ['g. Landscaping services\n(CPC 86742 **)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 10 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['h. Medical Services, specifically\nGeneral Medical Services (CPC\n93121) and Specialised Medical\nServices (CPC 93122)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None, other than the number of new foreign\ndoctors registered each year may be limited\ndepending on the total supply of doctors\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Dental Services\n(CPC 93123)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['i. Veterinary Services\n(CPC 932)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices', '', '', ''], ['a. Consultancy Services Related\nto the Installation of Computer\nHardware\n(CPC 84100)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 11 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b. Software Implementation\nServices\n(CPC 842)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['c. Data Processing', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['d. Database Services\n(CPC 84400)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['C. Research and Development\nServices', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 12 -a.    R&D services on natural sciences, specifically biotechnology services and industrial research 1)    None 2)    None 3)    None 4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal section.  1) None 2) None 3) None 4) Unbound  
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b. R&D services on social\nsciences and humanities,\nspecifically economic and\nbehavioural research (CPC\n852**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['c. Interdisciplinary R&D\nservices for projects\nundertaken by education\ninstitutions\n(CPC 853** )', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['D. Real Estate Services', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 13 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['a. Residential and non-\nresidential property\nmanagement services on a\nfee or contract basis\n(CPC 82201, 82202)', '1) None, except that only the Sentosa\nDevelopment Corporation is allowed to\ndevelop and manage the resort island of\nSentosa and its waterways and the Southern\nIslands of Singapore.\n2) None\n3) None, except that only the Sentosa\nDevelopment Corporation is allowed to\ndevelop and manage the resort island of\nSentosa and its waterways and the Southern\nIslands of Singapore.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None, except that only the Sentosa\nDevelopment Corporation is allowed to develop\nand manage the resort island of Sentosa and its\nwaterways and the Southern Islands of\nSingapore.\n2) None\n3) None, except that only the Sentosa\nDevelopment Corporation is allowed to develop\nand manage the resort island of Sentosa and its\nwaterways and the Southern Islands of\nSingapore.\n4) Unbound', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators', '', '', ''], ['a. Relating to ships\n(CPC 83103)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['b. Relating to aircraft\n(CPC 83104)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 14 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['c. Relating to motor vehicles\n(CPC 831**)', '1) None except that the rental of such vehicles\nby Singapore residents with the intent to use\nthe vehicles in Singapore is prohibited\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None except that the rental of such vehicles by\nSingapore residents with the intent to use the\nvehicles in Singapore is prohibited\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['F. Other Business Services', '', '', ''], ['a. Advertising Services\n(CPC 8711, 8712, 8719)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['b. Market Research and public\nopinion polling services', '', '', ''], ['Commercial Market\nResearch\n(CPC 86401)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['c. Management Consulting\nServices\n(CPC 865)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 15 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['d. Services related to\nmanagement consulting\n(CPC 866)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['e. Technical testing and\nanalysis services', '', '', ''], ['Technical testing and\nanalysis services of motor\nvehicles\n(CPC 8676**)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Technical testing and\nanalysis services, excluding\ntesting and analysis\nservices of motor vehicles\nand classification societies\n(CPC 8676 **)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['f. Professional, Advisory and\nConsulting Services\nRelating to Agriculture,\nForestry, Fishery\nAnd Mining, including\nOilfield Services\n(CPC 881**, 882**, 883**,\n5115**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 16 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['k. Placement and supply\nservices of personnel\n(CPC 872)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['l. Investigation and security', '', '', ''], ['Security consultation\nservices\n(CPC 87302)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Alarm monitoring services\n(CPC 87303)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 17 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Unarmed guard services\n(87305**)', 'Horizontal limitation on market access and\nnational treatment\nAll commitments in this sector are subject to the\nPrivate Investigation and Security Agencies Act\n(Cap. 249). The Act stipulates that:\n- Foreigners are permitted to set up\nagencies to provide unarmed guards for\nhire but must register a company with\nlocal participation. At least one of the\ndirectors must be a Singapore citizen or\nSingapore permanent resident.\n- The foreign directors must produce a\ncertificate of no criminal conviction from\ntheir country of origin or a statutory\ndeclaration before a local commissioner\nof oaths.\n- Foreigners are not allowed to work as\nguards, but can be involved in the\nadministration of the company.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['n. Maintenance and repair of\nequipment (not including\nmaritime vessels, aircraft or\nother transport equipment)\n(CPC 633, CPC 8861-8866\n**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 18 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['o. Building cleaning services\n(CPC 874)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['p. Photographic services\n(CPC 875)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['q. Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['s. Convention Services\n(CPC 87909**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['t. Other', '', '', ''], ['Translation/\nInterpretation Services\n(CPC 87905)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 19 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Interior Design Services,\nExcluding Architecture\n(CPC 87907**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES', '', '', ''], ['B. Courier Services', '', '', ''], ['Courier Services in respect\nof documents and parcels,\nexcluding letters and\npostcards', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['D. Telecommunication Services', None, None, None], ['General Conditions statement\nCommitments undertaken in this schedule are subject to the following conditions:\n1. The number of licences may be limited due to scarce resources, such as rights of way and availability of frequency spectrum.\n2. This excludes services regulated under the Broadcasting Act.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 20 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['1. Basic Telecommunication\nServices (facilities-based):\n(a) Public Switched Services1\n(local and\ninternational)\n(b) Leased Circuit Services\n(local and international)', '1) Subject to commercial arrangements with\nlicensed operator(s).\n2) None\n3) A cumulative total of 73.99% foreign\nshareholding, based on 49% Direct\nInvestment and 24.99% Indirect Investment is\nallowed.\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\ncommitments.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\ncommitments.', 'As annexed'], ['2. Mobile Services2:\n(a) Public Mobile Data Service\n(PMDS)\n(b) Public Trunked Radio\nService (PTRS)\n(c) Public Radio Paging\nService (PRPS)\n(d) Public Cellular Mobile\nTelephone Service\n(PCMTS)', '1) Subject to commercial arrangements with\nlicensed operator(s).\n2) None\n3) A cumulative total of 73.99% foreign\nShareholding, based on 49% direct\nInvestment and 24.99% indirect investment is\nallowed.\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\ncommitments.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\ncommitments.', 'As annexed']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 21 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3. Resale basis:\n(a) Public Switched Services\n(local and international)\n(not including the use of\nleased circuits connected to\nthe public switched\nnetwork)\n(b) Leased Circuit Services\n(local and international)\n(without connection to the\npublic switched network)\n(c) Public Cellular Mobile\nTelephone Services\n(d) Public Radio Paging\nServices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in horizontal\ncommitments.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in horizontal\ncommitments.', 'As annexed'], ['4. Value-added Network\n(VAN) services:\nThe services covered are:\n- electronic-mail\n- voice-mail\n- on-line information and\ndata-base retrieval\n- electronic data interchange\n- on-line information and/or\ndata processing\n- store-and-forward (S&F)\n- store-and-retrieve (S&R)', '1) Provision of VAN services is subjected to\nlicence from the Infocomm Development\nAuthority of Singapore (IDA)\n2) None\n3) Same as mode 1\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', 'As annexed'], ['', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 22 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Audiovisual Services', '', '', ''], ['(i) the services covered are\nproduction, distribution and\npublic display of\n- motion pictures\n- video recordings\n- sound recordings,\nexcept where excluded\nunder (ii)\n(CPC 9611, CPC 9612)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(ii) All broadcasting and\nAV services and materials\nthat are broadcasting-\nrelated are excluded,\nexamples\nbeing\n- Free-to-air\n- broadcasting Cable and\npay television\n- Direct broadcasting by\nsatellite\n- Teletext', '', '', ''], ['3. CONSTRUCTION AND\nRELATED ENGINEERING\nSERVICES', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 23 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Construction Services\nConsisting of:\n- General Construction\nfor Buildings (CPC\n512)\n- General Construction\nwork for civil\nengineering (CPC 513)\n- Installation and\nassembly work (CPC\n514 + 516)\n- Building Completion\nand finishing work\n(CPC 517)\n- Others (CPC 511 +\n515 + 518)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES', "Horizontal limitations on Market Access and National Treatment\nUnless otherwise specified, distribution services of any product subject to import prohibition or non-\nautomatic import licensing shall be excluded from the scope of these commitments.\nSingapore reserves the right and flexibility to modify and / or increase the list of products stipulated in the\nlaws, regulations and other measures governing Singapore's import prohibition or non-automatic import\nlicensing regime.", None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 24 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. Commission Agents’\nServices', '', '', ''], ['Commission agents’\nservices except for:\npharmaceutical and\nmedical goods and\ncosmetics (CPC 621,\nexcept CPC 62117)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['B. Wholesale Trade Services', '', '', ''], ['Wholesale trade services\nexcept for pharmaceutical\ngoods and medical goods\nand surgical and\northopaedic instruments\n(CPC 622 **)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['D. Franchising', '', '', ''], ['Franchising services\n(CPC 8929 **)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['5. EDUCATION SERVICES', 'Specific commitments on Market Access and National Treatment through any mode of supply shall not be\nconstrued to apply to the recognition of university degrees for the purposes of admission, registration and\nqualification for professional practice in Singapore.', None, '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 25 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Adult education services\n(CPC 924 n.e.c.)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL\nSERVICES', '', '', ''], ['C. Sanitation and similar\nservices\n(CPC 9403)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['D. Cleaning services of exhaust\ngases\n(CPC 9404)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['E. Noise abatement services\n(CPC 9405)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 26 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. Insurance and insurance-related services\nAll the commitments in this Schedule are also subject to entry requirements, domestic laws, guidelines, rules and regulations, terms and conditions of the Monetary\nAuthority of Singapore (MAS) or any other relevant authority or body in Singapore, as the case may be, which are consistent with Article VI of the General Agreement\non Trade in Services (GATS) and paragraph 2 of the Annex on Financial Services of the GATS.', None, None, None], ['(a) Life insurance services\nincluding annuity, disability\nincome, accident and health\ninsurance services', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) These measures are also limitations on\nnational treatment.\nForeign parties can only acquire equity stakes\nof up to 49% in aggregate in locally-owned\ninsurance companies provided the acquisition\ndoes not result in any foreign party being the\nlargest shareholder.\nUnbound for licensing of new insurance\ncompanies and establishment of new\nrepresentative offices and activities relating\nto the use including via investment, of\nmonies from any social security, public\nretirement or statutory savings scheme.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(b) Non-life insurance services\nincluding disability income,\naccident and health\ninsurance and contracts of\nfidelity bonds, performance\nbonds or similar contracts of\nguarantee', '1) Unbound\n2) None except that compulsory insurance of\nMotor Third Party Liability and Workmen’s\nCompensation may only be purchased from\nlicensed insurance companies in Singapore.\n3) Foreign parties can only acquire equity stakes\nof up to 49% in aggregate in locally owned\ninsurance companies provided the acquisition\ndoes not result in any foreign party being the\nlargest shareholder.\nUnbound for licensing of new insurance', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 27 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'companies and establishment of new\nrepresentative offices.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(c) Reinsurance and\nretrocession', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None except that reinsurance companies must\nbe established as branches or subsidiaries.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(d) Insurance intermediation\ncomprising broking and\nagency services', '1) Unbound\n2) These measures are also limitations on national\ntreatment.\nAgents are not allowed to act for unregistered\ninsurers. The placement of domestic risks\noutside Singapore by brokers is subject to the\napproval of MAS, with the exception of\nreinsurance risks and insurance risks relating\nto maritime liabilities of shipowners insured\nby protection and indemnity clubs.\n3) These measures are also limitations on national\ntreatment.\nUnbound except for admission of direct3\ninsurance and reinsurance brokers as locally\nincorporated subsidies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 28 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(e) Services auxiliary to\ninsurance comprisiong\nactuarial, loss adjustors,\naverage adjustors and\nconsultancy services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['B. Banking and other financial services\nAll the commitments in this Schedule are also subject to entry requirements, domestic laws, guidelines, rules and regulations, terms and conditions of MAS or any other\nrelevant authority or body in Singapore, as the case may be, which are consistent with Article VI of the GATS and paragraph 2 of the Annex on Financial Services of the\nGATS.', None, None, None], ['(a) Acceptance of deposits and\nother repayable funds from\nthe public', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) These measures are also limitations on\nnational treatment.\nOnly institutions approved as banks,\nmerchant banks and finance companies can\naccept deposits.\nWhere a foreign financial institution is subject to\nlegislation in its home country which requires that\ninstitution to confer lower priority to depositors of\nits foreign offices vis-à-vis the home country\ndepositors in receivership or winding-up\nproceedings, the MAS may exercise appropriate\ndifferentiated measures against that foreign\nfinancial institution in Singapore to safeguard the\ninterest of the Singapore office’s depositors. MAS\nmay require foreign banks to incorporate under\nSingapore law.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Commercial banks\nForeign banks can operate from only one\noffice (excluding back-office operations).\nThey cannot establish off-premise ATMs and ATM\nnetworking and new sub-branches. Unbound for\nprovision of all electronic banking services.\nLocation of banks and relocation of banks and sub-\nbranches require prior approval from MAS.\nWholesale banks can only accept foreign currency\nfixed deposits from and operate current accounts for\nresidents and non-residents. For Singapore dollar\ndeposits, they can only accept fixed deposits of\nS$250,000 or more per deposit.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 29 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Establishment and operation of foreign banks,\nmerchant banks and finance companies are also\nsubject to the limitations listed under activities\nB(a) to B(l) and the following limitations:\nCommercial banks\nNo new full and Wholesale banks.\nNew foreign banks may only establish as offshore\nbank branches or representative offices.\nRepresentative offices cannot conduct business or\nact as agents.\nBanks, with MAS’ approval, can operate foreign\ncurrency savings accounts only for non-residents.\nA single / related group of foreign shareholders\ncan only hold up to 5 per cent of a local bank’s\nshares.\nMerchant banks\nForeign banks and merchant banks may establish\nas merchant bank subsidiaries or merchant bank\nbranches.', 'Offshore banks can accept foreign currency fixed\ndeposits from residents and non-residents. For\nSingapore dollar deposits, they can only accept fixed\ndeposits of S$250,000 or more per deposit from non-\nresidents.\nA majority of the directors of a bank incorporated in\nSingapore must be either Singapore citizens or\nSingapore permanent residents4.\nMerchant banks\nMerchant banks can operate from only one office\n(excluding back-office operations). Location and\nrelocation of merchant banks require MAS’ prior\napproval.\nMerchant banks can, with MAS’ authorization, raise\nforeign currency funds from residents and non-\nresidents, operate foreign currency savings accounts\nfor non-residents and raise Singapore dollar funds\nfrom their shareholders and companies controlled by\ntheir shareholders, banks, other merchant banks and\nfinance companies.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 30 -                                                      
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Finance companies\nNo new finance companies. Unbound for foreign\nacquisition of shares in finance companies and\ntransfer of stake of foreign shareholdings in\nexisting finance companies to foreign parties.\nAll finance companies, local and foreign-owned,\ncan only conduct Singapore dollar business. With\nMAS’ prior approval, eligible finance companies\ncan also deal in foreign currencies, gold or other\nprecious metals, and acquire foreign currency\nstocks, shares or debt/ convertible securities.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', 'Finance companies\nLocation of finance companies and relocation of\nsub-branches require MAS’ prior approval.\nForeign-owned finance companies cannot establish\noff-premise ATMs, ATM networking and new sub-\nbranches.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(b) Lending of all types\nincluding consumer credit,\nmortgage credit, factoring\nand financing of commercial\ntransaction', '1) Unbound. Measures taken are also limitations\non national treatment.\n2) None\n3) These measures are also limitations on\nnational treatment.\n(i) Other than in-house credit cards, credit and\ncharge cards may be issued by card issuers\napproved by MAS subject to MAS’\nguidelines.\n(ii) Financial institutions extending Singapore\ndollar (S$) credit facilities exceeding S$5\nmillion per entity to non-resident financial\nentities or arranging S$ equity or bond issues\nfor non-residents, shall ensure that where the\nS$ proceeds are to be used outside Singapore,\nthey are swapped or converted into foreign\ncurrency upon draw-down or before\nremittance abroad. Financial entities shall not\nextend S$ credit facilities to non-resident\nfinancial entities if there is reason to believe', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Each offshore bank’s lending in Singapore\ndollars to residents shall not exceed S$200m in\naggregate.\nOffshore banks should not use their related\nmerchant banks to circumvent the S$200m\nlending limit.\nUnbound for establishment of off-premise cash\ndispensing machines for credit and charge\ncards issuers.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 31 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'that the S$ proceeds may be used for S$\ncurrency speculation.\n(iii) Establishment of credit companies which do\nnot conduct activities requiring MAS’\napproval is allowed.', '', ''], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(c) Financial leasing', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None except as indicated for activity B(b)\nabove.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None except as indicated for activity B(b)\nabove.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(d) Payment and money\ntransmission services,\nincluding credit, charge and\ndebit cards, travellers\ncheques and bankers’ drafts', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) These measures are also limitations on\nnational treatment.\nRemittance shops, except where the\nremittance business is conducted by banks\nand merchant banks, are required to be\nmajority owned by Singapore citizens.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', ''], ['', 'Bankers’ drafts can only be issued by banks.\nMulti-purpose stored value cards can only be\nissued by a bank in Singapore licensed by MAS.\nThe limitations indicated in B.b)3) above also\napply to the activities in B.d).\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 32 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['e) Guarantees and\ncommitments', '1) None except for the limitations indicated in\nactivity A.b) for insurance companies\nproviding contracts of fidelity bonds,\nperformance bonds or similar contracts of\nguarantee.\n2) None\n3) None except for the limitations indicated in\nactivity A.b) for insurance companies\nproviding contracts of fidelity bonds,\nperformance bonds or similar contracts of\nguarantee, and B.b) 3) (ii) above.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 33 -f) Trading for own account or for account of customers, whether on an exchange, in an over-the-counter market or otherwise, the following: - money market instruments (including cheques, bills, certificates of deposit) - foreign exchange - derivative products, including financial futures and options  1)  Unbound except for trading in products listed in B.(f) for own account. Trading in money market instruments, foreign exchange, as well as exchange rate and interest rate instruments can be conducted with financial institutions only. Measures taken are also limitations on national treatment. 2)     None 3)    These measures are also limitations on national treatment. Banks and merchant banks are required to set up separate subsidiaries to trade financial futures for customers.  1)   None       2)   None 3)  None except as indicated for activity B(b) above. 
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- exchange rate and interest\nrate instruments, including\nswaps and forward rate\nagreements\n- transferable securities\n- other negotiable\ninstruments and financial\nassets, including bullion', 'Financial futures brokers can establish as branches\nor subsidiaries. The offer of derivative products by\nboth local and foreign-owned financial institutions\nis allowed provided:\n- the product has been offered by the financial\ninstitution in other internationally-reputable\nfinancial centres and the supervisory authorities of\nthose centres agree to the offer of such products in\ntheir markets;\n- the financial institution’s parent supervisor and\nits head office must be aware and have no\nobjection to the offer of such products in the\nSingapore branch / subsidiary; and\n- MAS is satisfied that the financial institution has\nand continues to have the financial strength and\nadequate internal controls and risk management\nsystems to trade in these products.\nThe offer of derivative products involving the\nSingapore dollar is subject to the requirement\nindicated in B.b) 3) (ii).', '', ''], ['', 'Moneychangers, except where the moneychanging\nbusiness is conducted by banks and merchant\nbanks, are required to be majority owned by\nSingapore citizens.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 34 -(g) Participation in issues of all kinds of securities, including underwriting and placement as agent and provision of service related to such issues 1) Unbound except for participation in issues of securities for own account, and underwriting and placement of securities through stockbroking companies, banks or merchant banks in Singapore. Measures taken are also limitations on national treatment. 2)  None 1)    None      2)    None  
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) Measures taken are also limitations on national\ntreatment.\nSingapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd\n(SGX-ST) will admit new trading members.\nNew members will be able to trade directly in\nS$ denominated securities of Singapore\nincorporated companies with resident investors\nfor a minimum value of S$200,000.\nRepresentative offices cannot conduct business\nor act as agents. Unbound for foreign\nacquisition of new and existing equity interests\nin SGX-ST member companies.\nBanks’ and merchant banks’ membership on\nSGX-ST and Singapore Exchange Derivatives\nTrading Ltd (SGX-DT) must be held through\nsubsidiaries.\nUnbound for new Primary and Registered\ndealers of Singapore Government Securities.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '3) None except as indicated for activity B.b) above.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(h) Money broking', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound for new money brokers. Measures\ntaken are also limitations on national\ntreatment.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 35 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(i) Asset management, such as\ncash or portfolio\nmanagement, all forms of\ncollective investment\nmanagement, pension fund\nmanagement, custodial,\ndepository and trust services', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) These measures are also limitations on\nnational treatment.\nAsset management companies, custodial\ndepositories, and trust services companies\ncan establish as branches, or subsidiaries.\nOnly the Central Depositary Pte Ltd is\nauthorised to provide securities custodial\ndepository services under the scripless\ntrading system. Unbound for activities\nrelating to the use, including via investment,\nof monies from any social security, public\nretirement, or statutory saving scheme.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 36 -(j) Settlement and clearing services for financial assets, including securities, derivative products and other negotiable instruments 1)  Unbound, except for the provision of settlement and clearing services for financial assets which are listed on overseas exchanges only. 2)    None 3)  These measures are also limitations on national treatment. Settlement and clearing services for exchange traded securities and financial futures can only be provided by Central Depository (Pte) Limited and SGX-DT respectively. 1)   Unbound    2)    None 3)    Unbound  
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Only one clearing house established under\nthe Banking Act may provide clearing\nservices for Singapore dollar cheques and\ninterbank fund transfer.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['(k) Advisory and other auxiliary\nfinancial services, including\ncredit reference and\nanalysis, investment and\nportfolio research and\nadvice, advice on\nacquisitions and on\ncorporate restructuring and\nstrategy', '1) Commercial presence is required for provision\nof investment and portfolio research and\nadvice to the public.\n2) None\n3) Financial advisers can establish as branches,\nsubsidiaries or representative offices.\nRepresentative offices cannot conduct\nbusiness or act as agents.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 37 -(l) Provision and transfer of financial information, and financial data processing and related software by providers of other financial services 1) Unbound except for the provision of financial information by providers such as Reuters and Bloomberg. Measures taken are also limitations on national treatment. The Singapore branches of foreign banks can transmit data to their head offices and sister branches for processing provided proper controls exist, the integrity and confidentiality of the data/ information are safeguarded, and MAS is allowed on-site access to the data / information at the place where the data / information is processed.  2)  Only the provision of financial information by providers such as Reuters and Bloomberg is allowed.  Measures taken are also limitations on national treatment. 1) None for the provision of financial information by providers such as Reuters and Bloomberg.           2)    None  
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) The provision of financial information by\nproviders, such as Reuters and Bloomberg, is\nallowed. The provision of financial data\nprocessing services to banks and merchant\nbanks is subject to domestic laws on\nprotection of confidentiality of information\nof customers of banks and merchant banks.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['8. HEALTH RELATED AND\nSOCIAL SERVICES', 'Statutory supervision services as listed in the Appendix to this Schedule are excluded from the scope of\nthese commitments', None, ''], ['B. Acute care hospitals,\nnursing homes and\nconvalescent hospitals as\ndefined by the Private\nHospitals and Medical\nClinics Act, run on a\ncommercial basis\n(CPC 93193 **)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 38 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Social services delivered\nthrough residential\ninstitutions to old persons\nand the handicapped (CPC\n93311)\nSocial services delivered\nthrough residential\ninstitutions to children and\nother clients)\n(CPC 93312**)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None except that Singapore retains the\ndiscretion to determine whether a non-\nresident service supplier may solicit business\nor conduct active marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities/ service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None except that Singapore retains the\ndiscretion to determine whether a non-resident\nservice supplier may solicit business or conduct\nactive marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities/ service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded\n4) Unbound', ''], ['C. Guidance and counselling\nservices not elsewhere\nclassified related to\nchildren (CPC 93322)', '1) Unbound\n2) None except unbound for a non-resident\nservice supplier soliciting business or\nconducting active marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities / service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None except unbound for a non-resident\nservice supplier soliciting business or\nconducting active marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities / service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 39 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Welfare services not\ndelivered through\nresidential institutions\n(CPC 93323)', '1) Unbound\n2) None except unbound for a non-resident\nservice supplier soliciting business or\nconducting active marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities/ service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None except unbound for a non-resident\nservice supplier soliciting business or\nconducting active marketing in Singapore\n3) None, except unbound for facilities/ service\noperations run by non-profit service suppliers\nthat are partially or totally state-funded\n4) Unbound', ''], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL\nRELATED SERVICES', '', '', ''], ['a. Hotel and Restaurants\n(including catering)', '', '', ''], ['Hotel Lodging Services\n(CPC 64110)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 40 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Restaurant and Catering\nServices\n(CPC 64210, 64230)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['b. Travel Agent and Tour\nOperators Services\n(CPC 7471)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', ''], ['c. Tourist Guide Services\n(CPC 7472)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['10. RECREATIONAL,\nCULTURAL AND\nSPORTING SERVICES\n(OTHER THAN\nAUDIOVISUAL\nSERVICES)', '', '', ''], ['a. Libraries, archives,\nmuseums and other cultural\nservices', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 41 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Library Services\n(CPC 96311)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES', '', '', ''], ['A. Maritime Transport\nServices', '', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 42 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['International maritime\ntransport (freight and\npassengers) excluding\ncabotage transport (7211**,\n7212**).', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None, except on the registration of Singapore\nflag ships as specified in the Merchant Ships\nAct.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection; unbound for intra-corporate transfers\nof ships of ships crews', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', "When the following\nservices are not otherwise\ncovered by the obligation\nenshrined in Article\nXXVIII(c) (ii)of the\nGeneral Agreement on\nTrade in Services in\nAnnex 1B to the WTO\nAgreement, they will be\nmade available to\ninternational maritime\ntransport suppliers on\nreasonable and non-\ndiscriminating terms and\nconditions:\n- pilotage;\n- towing and tug\nassistance;\n- provisioning fuelling\nand watering;\n- garbage collecting\nand ballast; waste\ndisposal\n- port captain's\nservices;\n- navigation aids\nemergency;\n- repair facilities;\n- anchorage; and\n- other shore-based\noperational services\nessential to ship\noperations, including\ncommunications,"]]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 43 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'water and electrical\nsuppliers.'], ['Maritime Auxiliary\nServices:\nShipping agency services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Maritime Auxiliary\nServices:\nShipping brokerage\nServices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Maritime Auxiliary\nServices:\nClassification societies,\nexcept for statutory\nservices for Singapore flag\nships', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['12. OTHER SERVICES NOT\nINCLUDED\nELSEWHERE', '', '', ''], ['Washing, cleaning and\ndyeing services\n(CPC 9701)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 44 -
 Modes of Supply: (1) Cross-border supply               (2) Consumption abroad                 (3) Commercial presence             (4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Hairdressing and other\nbeauty services\n(CPC 9702)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Funeral, cremation and\nundertaking services except\nmaintenance services of\ncemeteries, care of graves\nand graveyards\n(CPC 97030**)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 45 -
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 46 -APPENDIX   TYPES OF SOCIAL SERVICES EXCLUDED FROM SINGAPORE’S SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS  1  Statutory Supervision Services With Accommodation for the Following Types of Clients (CPC 9331):  a) women and girls detained in a place of safety under Section 160 of the Women’s Charter (CPC 93312);  b) children detained in a place of safety under Section 8 of the Children & Young Persons (CYP) Act (CPC 93312);  c) children and young persons detained in a place of detention under Section 44 (1) (f) CYP Act, or on probation to an approved school under Section 44 (1) (g) of the CYP Act (CPC 93319);  d) children and young persons admitted to an approved home for statutory supervision under Section 49 (ii) of CYP Act (CPC 93312);  e) persons placed on probation with the requirement of residence in an approved institution under Section 12 of the Probation of Offenders Act (CPC 93319).  2  Statutory Supervision Services Without Accommodation for the Following Types of Clients (9332):  a) children and young persons placed under supervision of an appointed welfare officer under Section 49 (i) of the CYP Act (CPC 93329);  b) persons placed on probation without the requirement of residence in an approved institution under Section 5 of the Probation of Offenders Act (CPC 93329).                                                               
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 47 -ANNEX  Reference paper  Scope  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.   Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.   Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that      (a)    are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers; and       (b)    cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.   A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:      (a)    control over essential facilities; or      (b)    use of its position in the market.  1.    Competitive safeguards  1.1    Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications  Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices.  1.2    Safeguards  The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular:      (a)    engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;       (b)    using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results; and   
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 48 -    (c)    not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services.   2.    Interconnection  2.1    This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken.  2.2    Interconnection to be ensured   Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network. Such interconnection is provided.      (a)    under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates;       (b)    in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided; and       (c)    upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities.   2.3    Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations  The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available.  2.4    Transparency of interconnection arrangements   It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer.  2.5    Interconnection: dispute settlement  A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either:  
KA-ATS/SC1/SIN - 49 -    (a)    at any time or      (b)    after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known  to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously.  3.    Universal service  Any Member has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain. Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Member.   4.    Public availability of licensing criteria  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available:      (a)    all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence and       (b)    the terms and conditions of individual licences.   The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request.  5.    Independent regulators  The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants.  6.    Allocation and use of scarce resources  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner. The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
 KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                   ANNEX/SC1   _________________________________________________________________________         VIET NAM  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                                      
 VIET NAM – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['Unbound* means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS INCLUDED IN\nTHIS SCHEDULE', '(3) None, except:\nUnless otherwise specified in each\nspecific sector or sub-sector of this\nSchedule, foreign enterprises are\nallowed to establish commercial\npresence in Viet Nam in the form of\nbusiness co-operation contract 1 ,\njoint venture enterprise, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprise.\nRepresentative offices of foreign\nservice suppliers are permitted to be\nestablished in Viet Nam, but they\nshall not engage in any direct\nprofit-making activities2.\nUnless otherwise indicated in each\nspecific sector or sub-sector of this\nSchedule, the establishment of\nbranches is unbound.\nThe conditions of ownership,\noperation and juridical form and\nscope of activities as set out in the\nrespective licenses or other form of\napproval establishing or authorizing', '(3) None, except:\nEligibility for subsidies may be\nlimited to Vietnamese service\nsuppliers, i.e. to juridical persons\nestablished within the territory of\nViet Nam, or a part thereof. The\ngranting of one-time subsidization\nto promote and facilitate the\nprocess of equitisation is not in\nbreach of this commitment.\nUnbound for subsidies for\nResearch and Development.\nUnbound for subsidies in the\nHealth, Education and Audio-\nvisual sectors. Unbound for\nsubsidies aimed at promoting the\nwelfare and employment of ethnic\nminorities.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 2 -                                                      . 
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "the operation or supply of services\nby an existing foreign service\nsupplier shall not be made more\nrestrictive than they exist as of the\ndate of Viet Nam's accession to the\nWTO.", '', ''], ['', "Foreign-invested enterprises shall\nbe permitted by competent\nauthorities of Viet Nam to lease the\nland to carry out their investment\nprojects. The land leasing period\nshall correspond to the time of\noperation of those enterprises and\nshall be stipulated in their\ninvestment licenses and shall be\nextended whenever the time of\noperation of those enterprises is\nextended by competent authorities.\nForeign service suppliers are\npermitted to make capital\ncontribution in the form of buying\nshares of Viet Nam's enterprises. In\nthis case, the total equity held by\nforeign investors in each enterprise\nmay not exceed 30% of the\nenterprise's chartered capital unless\notherwise provided by Viet Nam's\nlaws or authorized by Viet Nam's\ncompetent authority.\nOne year after WTO accession, the\n30% foreign equity limitation for\nacquisition of Vietnamese\nenterprises shall be eliminated,\nexcept for capital contribution in\nthe form of buying shares of joint-", '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 3 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'stock commercial banks, and except\nfor the sectors not committed in this\nSchedule. For the other sectors and\nsub-sectors committed in this\nSchedule, the level of equity held\nby foreign investors in acquisition\nof Vietnamese enterprises shall be\ncorresponding to the limitations on\nforeign capital participation set\nforth therein, if any, including the\nlimitations in the form of\ntransitional periods, where\napplicable.', '', ''], ['', '(4) Unbound, except measures relating\nto entry and temporary stay of\nnatural persons who fall in one of\nthe following categories:\n(a) Intra-corporate transferees\nManagers, executives and\nspecialists, as defined hereunder, of\na foreign enterprise which has\nestablished a commercial presence\nin the territory of Viet Nam,\ntemporarily moving as intra-\ncorporate transferees to that\ncommercial presence and who have\nbeen previously employed by the\nforeign enterprise for at least one\nyear, shall be granted entry and a\nstay permit for an initial period of\nthree years which may be extended\nsubject to the term of operation of\nthose entities in Viet Nam. At least\n20% of the total number of', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nmarket access column.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 4 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "managers, executives and\nspecialists shall be Vietnamese\nnationals. However, a minimum of\n3 non-Vietnamese managers,\nexecutives and specialists shall be\npermitted per enterprise.\nManagers and executives are those\nwho primarily direct the\nmanagement of the foreign\nenterprises which have established\ncommercial presence in Viet Nam,\nreceiving only general supervision\nor direction from the board of\ndirectors or stockholders of the\nbusiness or their equivalent,\nincluding directing the\nestablishment or a department or\nsubdivision of the establishment,\nsupervising and controlling the\nwork of other supervisory,\nprofessional or managerial\nemployees, having the authority\npersonally to hire and fire or\nrecommend hiring, firing or other\npersonnel actions, and who do not\ndirectly perform tasks concerning\nthe actual supply of the services of\nthe establishment.\nSpecialists are natural persons\nworking within an organization\nwho possess knowledge at an\nadvanced level of expertise and\nwith knowledge of the\norganization's services, research\nequipment, techniques or", '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 5 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'management. In assessing such\nknowledge, account will be taken\nnot only of knowledge specific to\nthe commercial presence, but also\nof whether the person has a high\nlevel of skills or qualification\nreferring to a type of work or trade\nrequiring specific technical\nknowledge. Specialists may\ninclude, but are not limited to,\nParties of licensed professions.', '', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 6 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "(b) Other personnel\nManagers, executives and\nspecialists, as defined in (a) above,\nwho cannot be substituted by\nVietnamese and who are employed\noutside Viet Nam's territory by a\nforeign enterprise which has\nestablished a commercial presence\nin the territory of Viet Nam with a\nview to participating in the foreign\nenterprise's activities in Viet Nam,\nshall be granted entry and a stay\npermit in conformity with the term\nof the concerned employment\ncontract or for an initial period of\nthree years whichever is shorter,\nwhich may be extended subject to\nthe employment contract between\nthem and the commercial presence.\n(c) Service sales persons\nPersons not based in the territory of\nViet Nam and receiving no\nremuneration from a source located\nwithin Viet Nam, and who are\nengaged in activities related to\nrepresenting a service provider for\nthe purpose of negotiating for the\nsale of the services of that provider\nwhere: (i) such sales are not\ndirectly made to the general public;\nand (ii) the salesperson is not\ndirectly engaged in supplying the\nservice. The stay of these\nsalespersons is limited to a 90-day", '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 7 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'period.\n(d) Persons responsible for setting up a\ncommercial presence\nManagers and executives (as\ndefined in (a) above) within a\njuridical person, who are\nresponsible for the setting up, in\nViet Nam, of a commercial\npresence of a service provider of a\nParty when (i) these people are not\nengaged in making direct sales or\nsupplying services; and (ii) the\nservice provider has its principal\nplace of business in the territory of\na Party other than Viet Nam and\nhas no other commercial presence\nin Viet Nam. The stay of these\npersons is limited to a 90-day\nperiod.', '', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 8 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(e) Contractual service suppliers (CSS)\nNatural persons who are employees\nof a foreign enterprise having no\ncommercial presence in Viet Nam\nmay enter and stay in Viet Nam for\na period of 90 days or for the\nduration of the contract, whichever\nis less provided that the following\nconditions and requirements shall\nbe applied:\n- The foreign enterprise has\nobtained a service contract\nfrom a Vietnamese enterprise\nengaged in business operation\nin Viet Nam. The competent\nauthority of Viet Nam must be\nable to establish the necessary\nprocedures to guarantee the\nbona fide character of the\ncontract.\n- These persons must possess:\n(a) a university degree or a\ntechnical qualification\ndocument demonstrating\nknowledge of an equivalent\nlevel; (b) professional\nqualifications where this is\nrequired to exercise an activity\nin the sector concerned\npursuant to the laws and\nregulations of Viet Nam; and\n(c) at least 5 years of\nprofessional experience in the\nsector.\n- The number of these persons', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 9 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'covered by the service contract\nshall not be larger than\nnecessary to fulfil the contract,\nas it may be decided by the\nlaws and regulations and\nrequirement of Viet Nam.\n- These persons should have\nbeen employed by the foreign\nenterprise having no\ncommercial presence in\nViet Nam for a period of no\nless than 2 years and have met\nthe requirements prescribed\nfor "specialist" above.\nThe entry of these persons is allowed for\ncomputer and related services\n(CP 841-845, 849) and engineering\nservices (CPC 8672).', '', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 10 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Professional Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Legal services\n(CPC 861, excluding:\n- participation in legal\nproceedings in the\ncapacity of defenders or\nrepresentatives of their\nclients before the courts\nof Viet Nam;\n- legal documentation and\ncertification services of\nthe laws of Viet Nam)', "(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Foreign lawyers organizations3 are\npermitted to establish commercial\npresence in Viet Nam in the\nfollowing forms:\n- Branches of foreign lawyers\norganizations;\n- Subsidiaries of foreign lawyers\norganizations;\n- Foreign law firms4;\n- Partnerships between foreign\nlawyers organizations and\nViet Nam's law partnerships.\nCommercial presences of foreign\nlawyers organizations are permitted\nto make consultations on\nVietnamese laws if the consulting\nlawyers have graduated from a\nVietnamese law college and satisfy\nrequirements applied to like\nVietnamese law practitioners.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 11 -                                                      
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(b) Accounting and auditing and\nbookkeeping services\n(CPC 862)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(c) Taxation services\n(CPC 863)', "(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nFor the period of 1 year from the\ndate of WTO accession, the\nlicensing shall be made on the case\nby case basis and the number of\nservice providers shall be decided\nby Ministry of Finance subject to\nthe need and development scope of\nViet Nam's market5.\nFor the period of 1 year from the\ndate of WTO accession, foreign-\ninvested enterprises providing\ntaxation services are only permitted\nto supply services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises and foreign\nfunded projects in Viet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(d) Architectural services\n(CPC 8671)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nFor the period of 2 years from the\ndate of WTO accession, 100%', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 12 -                                                      
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'foreign-invested enterprises may\nonly provide services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises in Viet Nam.\nForeign enterprises have to be\njuridical persons of a Party.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)\n(f) Integrated engineering\nservices\n(CPC 8673)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nFor the period of 2 years from the\ndate of WTO accession, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprises may\nonly provide services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises in Viet Nam.\nForeign enterprises have to be\njuridical persons of a Party.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nThe supply of services related to\ntopographical, geotechnical, hydro\ngeological and environmental\nsurveys and technical surveys for\nurban-rural development planning,\nsectoral development planning are\nsubject to the authorization of the\nGovernment of Viet Nam6.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(g) Urban planning and urban\nlandscape architectural\nservices\n(CPC 8674)', '(1) None.', '(1) None, except the service must be\nauthenticated by an architect who\nhas appropriate practicing\ncertificate working in a\nVietnamese architectural\norganization which has juridical', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 13 -                                                      
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nAfter 2 years from the date of WTO\naccession, 100% foreign-invested\nenterprises may be established.\nFor the period of 2 years from the\ndate of WTO accession, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprises may\nonly provide services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises in Viet Nam.\nForeign enterprises have to be\njuridical persons of a Party.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', 'entity status, and comply with\nrelevant laws and regulations of\nViet Nam.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except the responsible\nforeign architects working in\nforeign-invested enterprises must\nhave the professional practicing\ncertificate granted or recognized\nby the Government of Viet Nam.\nIn some areas, subject to the\nregulations of the Government of\nViet Nam for national security and\nsocial stability purposes, foreign\nservice suppliers may not be\npermitted to provide this service7.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(i) Veterinary services\n(CPC 932)8', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Access is granted to natural persons\nexclusively for the conduct of\nprivate professional practice and\nunder the authorization by the\nveterinary authorities.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. Computer and Related Services (CPC 841-845, CPC 849)', None, None, None], ['', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that the chief of the\nbranch has to be a resident in', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 14 -                                                      
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'For the period of 2 years from the\ndate of WTO accession, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprises may\nonly provide services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises in Viet Nam.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branching is allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', 'Viet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['C. Research and Development Services', None, None, None], ['(a) R&D services on natural\nsciences\n(CPC 851)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services without Operators', None, None, None], ['(b) Relating to aircraft\n(CPC 83104)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(d) Relating to other machinery\nand equipment\n(CPC 83109)', '(1) Unbound, except for industrial\nmachinery and equipment9: None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound, except for industrial\nmachinery and equipment: None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['F. Other Business Services', None, None, None], ['(a) Advertising services\n(CPC 871, excluding\nadvertising for cigarettes)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', 'The advertising for wines and spirits\nshall be subject to State regulations,\nwhich are applied on a non-\ndiscriminatory basis.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 15 -                                                      
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Upon WTO accession, foreign\nservice suppliers are permitted to\nestablish joint venture or business\ncooperation contract with\nVietnamese partners who are legally\nauthorized to do advertising\nservices.\nUpon WTO accession, joint\nventures shall be allowed with\nforeign capital contribution not\nexceeding 51% of the legal capital\nof the joint venture. As of 1 January\n2009, there shall be no limitation on\nforeign capital contribution in the\njoint ventures.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(b) Market research services\n(CPC 864, excluding 86402)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession joint ventures\nshall be allowed with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 51% of\nthe legal capital of the joint venture.\nAs of 1 January 2009, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprises shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(c) Management consultant\nservices (CPC 865)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 16 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(3) None.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branching is allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(3) None, except that the chief of the\nbranch has to be a resident in\nViet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(d) Services related to\nmanagement consulting\n- CPC 866, except CPC\n86602\n- Arbitration and\nconciliation services for\ncommercial disputes\nbetween businesses\n(CPC 86602**)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that:\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branching is allowed.\nFor CPC 866 except CPC 86602:\nfor the period of 1 year from the\ndate of WTO accession: only in the\nform of joint venture or business\ncooperation contract. Thereafter:\nnone.\nFor Arbitration and conciliation\nservices for commercial disputes\nbetween businesses (CPC\n86602**): for the period of 3 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession:\nunbound. Thereafter: none.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that the chief of the\nbranch has to be a resident in\nViet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(e) Technical testing and analysis\nservices\n(CPC 8676, excluding\nconformity testing of transport\nvehicles and certification of\ntransport vehicles)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except where Viet Nam\nallows private suppliers access to a\nsector previously closed to private\nsector competition on the grounds\nthat the service had been supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 17 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'authority, joint ventures to supply\nsuch service shall be allowed\nwithout limitation on foreign\nownership 3 years after such access\nto private sector competition is\nallowed. Five years after those\nprivate sector services suppliers\nhave been granted such access:\nnone.\nAccess to certain geographic areas\nmay be restricted for national\nsecurity reasons.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(f) Services incidental to\nagriculture, hunting and\nforestry\n(CPC 881)10', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nOnly in the form of joint-venture or\nbusiness co-operation contract.\nForeign capital contribution may\nnot exceed 51% of the legal capital\nof the joint venture.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nAccess to certain geographical\nareas may be restricted.11\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 18 -                                                      
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(h) Services incidental to mining (CPC 883)\n1. The commitments specified hereunder are not understood to cover the following activities: supply of equipment, materials and chemicals, supply base\nservices, offshore/marine support vessels, accommodation and catering, helicopter services.\n2. The commitments specified hereunder are made without prejudice to the rights of the Government of Viet Nam to set out the necessary regulations and\nprocedures to regulate the oil and gas related activities carried out within the territory or jurisdiction of Viet Nam in full conformity with the rights and\nobligations of Viet Nam under the GATS.', None, None, None], ['', "(1) None, except: companies without a\ncommercial presence may be\nrequired to be registered with the\ncompetent authority of the\nGovernment of Viet Nam under the\nterms outlined in Viet Nam's\napplicable laws.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession, joint\nventures with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 49%\nshall be permitted. After 3 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession,\nthis limitation shall be 51%. Two\nyears thereon, 100% foreign-\ninvested enterprises shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(1) None, except as indicated in\nmarket access column.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(i) Services incidental to\nmanufacturing (CPC 884 and\n885)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, only joint ventures with\nforeign capital contribution not', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 19 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'exceeding 50% shall be permitted.\nFive years thereon: 100% foreign-\ninvested enterprises shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(m) Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting services12\n(CPC 86751, 86752 and\n86753 only)', "(1) None, except: companies without a\ncommercial presence may be\nrequired to be registered with the\ncompetent authority of the\nGovernment of Viet Nam under the\nterms outlined in Viet Nam's\napplicable laws.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession, joint\nventures with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 49%\nshall be permitted. After 2 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession,\nthis limitation shall be 51%. Two\nyears thereon, 100% foreign-\ninvested enterprises shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(1) None, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(n) Maintenance and repair of\nequipment (not including\nmaritime vessels, aircraft or\nother transport equipment)\n(CPC 633)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession, joint\nventures with foreign capital', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 20 -                                                      
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'contribution not exceeding 49%\nshall be permitted. After 3 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession,\nthis limitation shall be 51%. Two\nyears thereon, 100% foreign-\ninvested enterprises shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['2. COMMUNICATION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['B. Courier Services (CPC\n7512**)\n* Express delivery services13, i.e.\nservices consisting of collection,\nsorting, transport and delivery,\nwhether for domestic or foreign\ndestination, of:\n(a) Written communication14, on\nany kind of physical medium,\nincluding:\n- Hybrid mail service;\n- Direct mail.\nExcept for the handling of\nitems of written\ncommunication the price of\nwhich is less than:\n- 10 times the tariff for the\nhandling of a standard', '(1) None.16\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that foreign ownership\nin joint ventures may be limited to\n51% within the first 5 years after\nWTO accession.\nAfter 5 years from the date of WTO\naccession, 100% foreign-invested\nenterprises shall be permitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', 'Services and services suppliers of\nany other Party shall be accorded\ntreatment no less favourable than the\ntreatment accorded to the\nVietnamese Post Office or its\nsubsidiaries for its competitive\nactivities.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 21 -                                                       
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['domestic letter in the first\nweight level for domestic\nshipments;\n- US$9 for international\nshipments;\nprovided that the gross weight\nof these items is less than\n2,000 grams.\n(b) Parcels15 and other goods.\n* Handling of non-addressed items.', '', '', ''], ['C. Telecommunication Services\nCommitments hereunder are made in accordance with "Notes for Scheduling Basic Telecom Services Commitments" (S/GBT/W/2/REV.1) and "Market Access\nLimitations on Spectrum Availability" (S/GBT/W/3). For the purpose of these commitments, a "non-facilities based service supplier" means a service supplier\nwhich does not own transmission capacity but contracts for such capacity including submarine cable capacity, including on a long-term basis, from a facilities-based\nsupplier. A non facilities-based supplier is not otherwise excluded from owning telecommunications equipment within their premises and permitted public service\nprovision points (POP).', None, None, None], ['Basic telecommunication services\n(a) Voice telephone services\n(CPC 7521)\n(b) Packet-switched data\ntransmission services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(d) Telex services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(e) Telegraph services\n(CPC 7523**)\n(f) Facsimile services', '(1) None, except:\nWire-based and mobile terrestrial\nservices: Service must be offered\nthrough commercial arrangements\nwith an entity established in Viet\nNam and licensed to provide\ninternational telecommunication\nservices.\nSatellite-based services: Subject to\ncommercial arrangements with\nVietnamese international satellite\nservice suppliers duly licensed in\nViet Nam, except satellite-based\nservices offered to:', '(1) None.', 'Viet Nam undertakes the obligations\nin the Reference Paper attached\nhereto.\nFor consortium submarine cable\nlinks where Viet Nam is Party,\nforeign service suppliers shall be\npermitted to control fully-owned\nsubmarine cable transmission\ncapacity (e.g. IRU or consortium\nownership) terminating at a licensed\ncable landing station in Viet Nam,\nand to provide such capacity to\ninternational facilities-based service\nsuppliers licensed in Viet Nam. 4\nyears after WTO accession foreign\nservice suppliers shall be permitted\nto provide such\ncapacity to international VPN and']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 22 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 7521** + 7529**)\n(g) Private leased circuit services\n(CPC 7522** + 7523**)', '', '', 'IXP service suppliers licensed in\nViet Nam.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 23 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(o*) Other services\n- Videoconference services\n(CPC 75292)\n- Video Transmission services,\nexcluding broadcasting17\n- Radio based services includes:\n+ Mobile telephone\n(terrestrial and satellite)\n+ Mobile data\n(terrestrial and satellite)\n+ Paging\n+ PCS\n+ Trunking\n- Internet Exchange Service\n(IXP)18', "- Upon WTO accession: off-\nshore/on sea based business\ncustomers, government\ninstitutions, facilities-based\nservice suppliers, radio and\ntelevision broadcasters, official\ninternational organization'\nrepresentative offices,\ndiplomatic representatives and\nconsulates, high tech and\nsoftware development parks\nwho are licensed to use satellite-\nearth stations;\n- Three years after WTO\naccession: multinational\ncompanies19, which are licensed\nto use satellite-earth stations.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nNon facilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession joint ventures with\ntelecommunications service\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 51%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\nThree years after WTO accession:\njoint venture will be allowed\nwithout limitation on choice of", '(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 24 -                                                      
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'partner. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 65%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\nFacilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession, joint venture with\ntelecommunications service\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 49%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\n51% gives management control of\nthe joint venture.\nIn the telecommunications sector,\nforeign investors in BCC will have\nthe possibility to renew current\narrangements or to convert them\ninto another form of establishment\nwith conditions no less favourable\nthan those they currently enjoy.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 25 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Basic telecommunication services:\n(o*) Other services\n- Virtual Private Network\n(VPN)20', "(1) None, except:\nWire-based and mobile terrestrial\nservices: Service must be offered\nthrough commercial arrangements\nwith an entity established in\nViet Nam and licensed to provide\ninternational telecommunication\nservices.\nSatellite-based services: Subject to\ncommercial arrangements with\nVietnamese international satellite\nservice suppliers duly licensed in\nViet Nam, except satellite-based\nservices offered to:\n- Upon WTO accession: off-\nshore/on sea based business\ncustomers, government\ninstitutions, facilities-based\nservice suppliers, radio and\ntelevision broadcasters, official\ninternational organization'\nrepresentative offices,\ndiplomatic representatives and\nconsulates, high tech and\nsoftware development parks\nwho are licensed to use satellite-\nearth stations;", '(1) None.', 'Viet Nam undertakes the obligations\nin the Reference Paper attached\nhereto.\nFor consortium submarine cable\nlinks where Viet Nam is Party,\nforeign service suppliers shall be\npermitted to control fully-owned\nsubmarine cable transmission\ncapacity (e.g. IRU or consortium\nownership) terminating at a licensed\ncable landing station in Viet Nam,\nand to provide such capacity to\ninternational facilities-based service\nsuppliers licensed in Viet Nam. 4\nyears after WTO accession foreign\nservice suppliers shall be permitted\nto provide such capacity to\ninternational VPN and IXP service\nsuppliers licensed in Viet Nam.']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 26 -                                                       
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- Three years after WTO\naccession: multinational\ncompanies19, which are licensed\nto use satellite-earth stations.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nNon facilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession, joint ventures shall\nbe allowed without limitation on\nchoice of partner. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 70%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\nFacilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession, joint venture with\ntelecommunications service\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 49%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Value-added services\n(h) Electronic mail\n(CPC 7523 **)\n(i) Voice mail\n(CPC 7523 **)\n(j) On-line information and\ndatabase retrieval\n(CPC 7523**)\n(k) Electronic data interchange\n(EDI)', '(1) None, except:\nWire-based and mobile terrestrial\nservices: Service must be offered\nthrough commercial arrangements\nwith an entity established in\nViet Nam and licensed to provide\ninternational telecommunication\nservices.\nSatellite-based services: Subject to\ncommercial arrangements with\nVietnamese international satellite\nservice suppliers duly licensed in', '(1) None.', 'Viet Nam undertakes the\nobligations in the Reference Paper\nattached hereto.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 27 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 7523**)\n(l) Enhance/value-added\nfacsimile services, incl store\nand forward, store and retrieve\n(CPC 7523**)\n(m) Code and protocol conversion\n(n) On-line information and data\nprocessing (incl. transaction\nprocessing)\n(CPC 843**)', "Viet Nam, except satellite-based\nservices offered to:\n- Upon WTO accession: off-\nshore/on sea based business\ncustomers, government\ninstitutions, facilities-based\nservice suppliers, radio and\ntelevision broadcasters, official\ninternational organization'\nrepresentative offices,\ndiplomatic representatives and\nconsulates, high tech and\nsoftware development parks\nwho are licensed to use satellite-\nearth stations;\n- Three years after WTO\naccession: multinational\ncompanies19, which are licensed\nto use satellite-earth stations.", '', ''], ['', '(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nNon facilities-based services:\nUpon WTO accession: business\ncooperation contracts or joint\nventures will be allowed. Foreign\ncapital contribution shall not exceed\n51% of legal capital of the joint\nventures.\nThree years after WTO accession:\nForeign capital contribution shall\nnot exceed 65% of legal capital of\nthe joint ventures.\nFacilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession, business', '(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 28 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'cooperation contracts or joint\nventures (JV) with\ntelecommunications service\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 50%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\nFifty-one % gives management\ncontrol of the joint venture.\nIn the telecommunications sector,\nforeign investors in BCC will have\nthe possibility to renew current\narrangements or to convert them\ninto another form of establishment\nwith conditions no less favourable\nthan those they currently enjoy.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Value added services\n(o) Other\n- Internet Access Services IAS21', '(1) Wire-based and mobile terrestrial\nservices: None, except: Service\nmust be offered through commercial\narrangements with an entity\nestablished in Viet Nam and\nlicensed to provide international\ntelecommunication services.\nSatellite-based services: Subject to\ncommercial arrangements with\nVietnamese international satellite\nservice suppliers duly licensed in\nViet Nam, except satellite-based\nservices offered to:', '(1) None.', 'Viet Nam undertakes the obligations\nin the Reference Paper attached\nhereto']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 29 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "- Upon WTO accession: off-\nshore/on sea based business\ncustomers, government\ninstitutions, facilities-based\nservices suppliers, radio and\ntelevision broadcasters, official\ninternational organization'\nrepresentative offices,\ndiplomatic representatives and\nconsulates, high tech and\nsoftware development parks\nwho are licensed to use satellite-\nearth stations;\n- Three years after WTO\naccession: multinational\ncompanies19, which are licensed\nto use satellite-earth stations.", '', '.'], ['', '(2) None.\n(3) Non facilities-based services:\nUpon WTO accession: joint\nventures with telecommunications\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 51%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\nThree years after WTO accession:\njoint venture will be allowed\nwithout limitation on choice of\npartner. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 65%', '(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 30 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'of legal capital of the joint ventures.\nFacilities-based services: Upon\nWTO accession, joint venture (JV)\nwith telecommunications service\nsuppliers duly licensed in Viet Nam\nwill be allowed. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 50%\nof legal capital of the joint ventures.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 31 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ["D. Audiovisual Services\nWith regard to motion picture production, distribution and projection services, all films must have their content censored by Viet Nam's competent authorities.", None, None, None], ['(a) Motion picture production\n(CPC 96112, excl. video tape)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) Unbound.\n(3) Only in the forms of business\ncooperation contracts or joint\nventures with Vietnamese partners\nwho are authorized to provide these\nservices in Viet Nam. Foreign\ncapital contribution may not exceed\n51% of the legal capital of the joint\nventure.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) Unbound.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['- Motion picture distribution\n(CPC 96113, excl. video tape)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Only through business cooperation\ncontract or joint venture with\nVietnamese partners who are\nauthorized to provide these services\nin Viet Nam. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 51%\nof the legal capital of the joint\nventure.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(b) Motion picture projection\nservice (CPC 96121)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Only through business cooperation\ncontracts or joint venture with\nVietnamese partners who are\nauthorized to provide these services\nin Viet Nam. Foreign capital\ncontribution shall not exceed 51%\nof legal capital.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 32 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "Viet Nam's houses of culture, film\nprojection place, public cinema\nclubs and societies and mobile\nprojection teams are not allowed to\nengage in business cooperation\ncontract or joint-venture with\nforeign service suppliers.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(e) Sound recording', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['3. CONSTRUCTION AND RELATED ENGINEERING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. General construction work for\nbuilding\n(CPC 512)\nB. General construction work for\ncivil engineering\n(CPC 513)\nC. Installation and assembly\nwork (CPC 514, 516)\nD. Building completion and\nfinishing work\n(CPC 517)\nE. Other\n(CPC 511, 515, 518)', '(1) Unbound. *\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nFor the period of 2 years from the\ndate of WTO accession, 100%\nforeign-invested enterprises could\nonly provide services to foreign-\ninvested enterprises and foreign-\nfunded projects in Viet Nam.\nForeign enterprises have to be\njuridical persons of a Party.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branching is allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.*\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that the chief of the\nbranch has to be a resident in\nViet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 33 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['4. DISTRIBUTION SERVICES', None, None, None], ['Measures applicable to all sub-sectors in Distribution Services:\nCigarettes and cigars, books, newspapers and magazines, video records on whatever medium, precious metals and stones, pharmaceutical products and drugs22,\nexplosives, processed oil and crude oil, rice, cane and beet sugar are excluded from the commitments.', None, None, None], ["A. Commission agents' services\n(CPC 621, 61111, 6113, 6121)\nB. Wholesale trade services\n(CPC 622, 61111, 6113, 6121)\nC. Retailing services\n(CPC 631 + 632, 61112, 6113,\n6121)23", "(1) Unbound, except none for:\n- Distribution of products for\npersonal use;\n- Distribution of legitimate\ncomputer software for personal\nand commercial use.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nA joint venture with a Vietnamese\npartner(s) is required, and foreign\ncapital contribution shall not exceed\n49%. As of 1 January 2008, the\n49% capital limitation shall be\nabolished. As of 1 January 2009,\nnone.\nUpon WTO accession, foreign-\ninvested companies engaging in\ndistribution services will be\npermitted to engage in the\ncommission agents', wholesale and\nretail business of all legally\nimported and domestically\nproduced products except for:\ncement and cement clinkers; tyres\n(excluding tyres of airplanes);\npapers; tractors; motor vehicles;\ncars and motorcycles; iron and\nsteel; audiovisual devices; wines\nand spirits; and fertilizers.", '(1) Unbound, except as indicated in\nMode 1, market access column.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', ''], ['', 'As of 1 January 2009, foreign-', '', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 34 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "invested companies engaging in\ndistribution services will be\npermitted to engage in the\ncommission agents', wholesale and\nretail business of tractors; motor\nvehicles; cars and motorcycles.\nWithin 3 years of Viet Nam's\naccession, foreign-invested\ncompanies engaging in distribution\nservices will be permitted to engage\nin the commission agents',\nwholesale and retail business of all\nlegally imported and domestically\nproduced products.\nThe establishment of outlets for\nretail services (beyond the first one)\nshall be allowed on the basis of an\nEconomic Needs Test (ENT)24.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['D. Franchising services\n(CPC 8929)', '(1) (2) None.\n(3) None, except a joint venture with a\nVietnamese partner(s) is required,\nand foreign capital contribution\nshall not exceed 49%. As of\n1 January 2008, the 49% capital\nlimitation shall be abolished. As of\n1 January 2009, none.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branching is allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) (2) None.\n(3) None, except that the chief of the\nbranch has to be a resident in\nViet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 35 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ["5 EDUCATIONAL SERVICES\nOnly in technical, natural sciences and technology, business administration and business studies, economics, accounting, international law and language training\nfields.\nWith regard to points (C), (D), and (E) below: The education content must be approved by Viet Nam's Ministry of Education and Training.", None, None, None], ['B. Secondary education services\n(CPC 922)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['C. Higher education services\n(CPC 923)\nD. Adult education\n(CPC 924)\nE. Other education services\n(CPC 929 including foreign\nlanguage training)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession, only in the\nform of joint-ventures. Majority\nforeign ownership of such joint\nventures is allowed. As of 1\nJanuary 2009, 100% foreign-\ninvested education entities are\npermitted.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession: none.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Foreign teachers who wish to work\nin foreign-invested schools shall\nhave at least 5 years of teaching\nexperience, and their qualifications\nshall be recognized by the\ncompetent authority.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES\nAccess to certain geographic areas may be restricted for national security reasons25.', None, None, None], ['A. Sewage Services\n(CPC 9401)', '(1) Unbound, except related consulting\nservices.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nConfirming that services supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental', '(1) Unbound, except related\nconsulting services.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', 'Foreign companies are allowed to do\nbusiness activities in Viet Nam in the\nform of build-operate-transfer (BOT)\nand build-transfer-operate (BTO).']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 36 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'authority as defined in Article I:3(c)\nmay be subject to public\nmonopolies or exclusive rights\ngranted to private operators.\nUpon WTO accession joint\nventures with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 51 %\nare allowed during 4 years after\nWTO accession. After that, none.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. Refuse disposal services\n(CPC 9402) 26', '(1) Unbound, except related consulting\nservices.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nConfirming that services supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental\nauthority as defined in Article I:3(c)\nmay be subject to public\nmonopolies or exclusive rights\ngranted to private operators.\nForeign ownership is limited to\n51 % during 4 years after WTO\naccession. After that, none.\nFor the purpose of ensuring public\nwelfare, foreign-invested enterprises\nare restricted from collecting refuse\ndirectly from households. They are\nonly permitted to provide services\nat the refuse collection points as\nspecified by local municipal and\nprovincial authorities.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', 'Foreign companies are allowed to do\nbusiness activities in Viet Nam in the\nform of build-operate-transfer (BOT)\nand build-transfer-operate (BTO).']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 37 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Other services\n- Cleaning services of exhaust\ngases\n(CPC 94040) and noise\nabatement services (CPC\n94050)', '(1) Unbound, except related consulting\nservices.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nConfirming that services supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental\nauthority as defined in Article I:3(c)\nmay be subject to public\nmonopolies or exclusive rights\ngranted to private operators.\nForeign ownership is limited to\n51 % during 4 years after WTO\naccession. After that, none.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound, except related\nconsulting services.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['- Environmental impact\nassessment services\n(CPC 94090*)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that foreign ownership\nis limited to 51% during 4 years\nafter WTO accession. After that,\nnone.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Insurance and Insurance-\nRelated Services\na. Direct insurance\n(a) Life insurance, excl. health\ninsurance services\n(b) Non-life insurance services\nb. Reinsurance and retrocession\nc. Insurance intermediation', '(1) None for:\n- Insurance services provided to\nenterprises with foreign-invested\ncapital, foreigners working in\nViet Nam;\n- Reinsurance services;\n- Insurance services in\ninternational transportation,\nincluding insurance of risks\nrelating to:', '(1) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 38 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(such as brokerage and\nagency)\nd. Services auxiliary to insurance\n(such as consultancy,\nactuarial, risk assessment and\nclaim settlement)', '+ international maritime transport\nand international commercial\naviation, with such insurance to\ncover any or all of the\nfollowing: the goods being\ntransported, the vehicle\ntransporting the goods and any\nliability arising there-from; and', '', ''], ['', '+ goods in international transit;\n- Insurance broking and\nreinsurance broking services;\n- Consultancy, actuarial, risk\nassessment and claim settlement\nservices.', '', ''], ['', '(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\n100% foreign-invested insurance\nenterprises shall not be allowed to\nengage in statutory insurance\nbusiness, including motor vehicle\nthird party liability, insurance in\nconstruction and installation,\ninsurance for oil and gas projects,\nand insurance for projects and\nconstruction works of high danger\nto public security and the\nenvironment. As of 1 January 2008,\nthis limitation shall be abolished.\nAfter 5 years from the date of WTO\naccession, non-life branches of\nforeign insurance enterprises shall\nbe permitted, subject to prudential\nregulations.', '(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 39 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. Banking and Other Financial Services\nCommitments with respect to banking and other financial services are undertaken in accordance with relevant laws and regulations promulgated by competent\nauthorities of Viet Nam to ensure the consistency with Article VI of the GATS and Para 2 (a) of the Annex on Financial Services.\nAs a general rule and on a non-discriminatory basis, the offer of banking and other financial services or products is subject to relevant institutional and\njuridical form requirements.', None, None, None], ["(a) Acceptance of deposits and\nother repayable funds from the\npublic\n(b) Lending of all types, including\nconsumer credit, mortgage\ncredit, factoring and financing\nof commercial transaction\n(c) Financial leasing\n(d) All payment and money\ntransmission services,\nincluding credit, charge and\ndebit cards, travellers' cheques\nand bankers drafts\n(e) Guarantees and commitments\n(f) Trading for own account or\nfor account of customers,\nwhether on an exchange, in an\nover-the-counter market or\notherwise, the following:\n- Money market instrument", '(1) Unbound, except B(k) and B(l).\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\n(a) Foreign credit institutions are only\npermitted to establish commercial\npresence in Viet Nam in the\nfollowing forms:\n(i) With respect to foreign\ncommercial banks:\nrepresentative office, branch of\nforeign commercial bank,\ncommercial joint venture bank\nwith foreign capital contribution\nnot exceeding 50% of chartered\ncapital, joint venture financial\nleasing company, 100% foreign-\ninvested financial leasing\ncompany, join venture finance\ncompany and 100% foreign-\ninvested finance company, and,\nbeginning on 1 April 2007,\n100% foreign-owned banks are\npermitted.\n(ii) With respect to foreign finance\ncompanies: representative', '(1) Unbound, except B(k) and B(l).\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\n(a) The conditions for the\nestablishment of a branch of a\nforeign commercial bank in\nViet Nam:\n- The parent bank has total assets of\nmore than US$20 billion at the end\nof the year prior to application.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 40 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(including cheques, bills,\ncertificates of deposits);\n- Foreign exchange;\n- Exchange rate and interest rate\ninstrument incl products such\nas swaps, forward rate\nagreements;\n- Bullion.\n(h) Money broking', 'office, joint venture finance\ncompany, 100% foreign-\ninvested finance company, joint\nventure financial leasing\ncompany and 100% foreign-\ninvested financial leasing\ncompany.', '', ''], ['(i) Asset management, such as\ncash or portfolio management,\nall forms of collective\ninvestment management,\npension fund management,\ncustodial, depository and trust\nservices\n(j) Settlement and clearing\nservices for financial assets,\nincluding securities, derivative\nproducts, and other negotiable\ninstruments\n(k) Provision and transfer of\nfinancial information, and\nfinancial data processing and\nrelated software by suppliers\nof other financial services\n(l) Advisory, intermediation and\nother auxiliary financial\nservices on all activities listed\nin subparagraphs from (a) to\n(k), including credit reference\nand analysis, investment and', "(iii) With respect to foreign\nfinancial leasing companies:\nrepresentative office, joint\nventure financial leasing\ncompany and 100% foreign-\ninvested financial leasing\ncompany.\n(b) During 5 years from the date of\nWTO accession, Viet Nam may\nlimit the right of a foreign bank\nbranch to accept deposits in\nVietnamese Dong from Vietnamese\nnatural persons with which the bank\ndoes not have a credit relationship\nto a ratio of the branch's paid-in\ncapital according to the schedule\nbelow:\n- 1 January 2007: 650%\nof legal paid-in capital;\n- 1 January 2008: 800%\nof legal paid-in capital;\n- 1 January 2009: 900%\nof legal paid-in capital;\n- 1 January 2010: 1,000%", '(b) The conditions for the\nestablishment of a joint venture\nbank or a 100% foreign-owned\nbank:\n- The parent bank has total assets of\nmore than US$10 billion at the end\nof the year prior to application.\n(c) The conditions for the\nestablishment of a 100% foreign-\ninvested finance company or a\njoint venture finance company, a\n100% foreign-invested financial', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 41 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['portfolio research and advice,\nadvice on acquisitions and on\ncorporate restructuring and\nstrategy', "of legal-paid-in capital;\n- 1 January 2011: Full national\ntreatment.\n(c) Equity participation:\n(i) Viet Nam may limit equity\nparticipation by foreign credit\ninstitutions in equitized\nVietnamese state-owned banks\nto the same level as equity\nparticipation by Vietnamese\nbanks.\n(ii) For capital contribution in the\nform of buying shares, the total\nequity held by foreign\ninstitutions and individuals in\neach Viet Nam's joint-stock\ncommercial bank may not\nexceed 30% of the bank's\nchartered capital, unless\notherwise provided by\nViet Nam's laws or authorized\nby a Viet Nam's competent\nauthority.", 'leasing company or a joint-venture\nfinancial leasing company:\n- The foreign credit institution has\ntotal assets of more than\nUS$10 billion at the end of the\nyear prior to application.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 42 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(d) A branch of foreign commercial\nbank:\n- is not allowed to open other\ntransaction points outside its\nbranch office.\n(e) Upon WTO accession, foreign\ncredit institutions are allowed to\nissue credit cards on a national\ntreatment basis.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 43 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Securities\n(f) Trading for own account or\nfor account of customers,\nwhether on an exchange, in an\nover-the-counter market or\notherwise, the following:\n- Derivative products incl.\nfutures and options;\n- Transferable securities;\n- Other negotiable\ninstruments and financial\nassets, excluding bullion.\n(g) Participation in issues of all\nkinds of securities incl. under-\nwriting and placement as an\nagent (publicly or privately),\nprovision of services related to\nsuch issues\n(i) Asset management, such as\nportfolio management, all\nforms of collective investment\nmanagement, pension fund\nmanagement, custodial\ndepository and trust services\n(j) Settlement and clearing\nservices for securities,\nderivative products, and other\nsecurities-related instruments\n(k) Provision and transfer of\nfinancial information, and\nrelated software by suppliers\nof securities services', '(1) Unbound, except services C(k) and\nC(l).\n(2) None.\n(3) Upon WTO accession, foreign\nsecurities service suppliers shall be\npermitted to establish representative\noffices and joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners in which\nforeign capital contribution not\nexceeding 49%.\nAfter 5 years from the date of WTO\naccession, securities service\nsuppliers with 100% foreign-\ninvested capital shall be permitted.\nFor services from C(i) to C(l), after\n5 years from the date of WTO\naccession, branches of foreign\nsecurities services suppliers shall be\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 44 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(l) Advisory, intermediation and\nother auxiliary securities-\nrelated excluding (f),\nincluding investment and\nportfolio research and advice,\nadvice on acquisitions and on\ncorporate restructuring and\nstrategy (for other services\nunder (l), refer to (l) under\nbanking sector)', '', '', ''], ['8. HEALTH RELATED AND SOCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Hospital services\n(CPC 9311)\nB. Medical and dental services\n(CPC 9312)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Foreign service suppliers are\npermitted to provide services\nthrough the establishment of 100%\nforeign-invested hospital, joint\nventure with Vietnamese partners or\nthrough business cooperation\ncontract.\nThe minimum investment capital\nfor a commercial presence in\nhospital services must be at least\nUS$20 million for a hospital,\nUS$2 million for a policlinic unit\nand US$200,000 for a specialty\nunit.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Hotel and restaurant including\n- Lodging services', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except for a period of 8 years', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 45 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(CPC 64110)\n- Catering food\n(CPC 642) and\ndrink services\n(CPC 643)', 'from the WTO accession date the\nservices provided should be in\nparallel with investment in hotel\nconstruction, renovation, restoration\nor acquisition. None afterwards.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. Travel agencies and tour\noperator services\n(CPC 7471)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that:\nforeign service suppliers are\npermitted to provide services in the\nform of joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners with no\nlimitation on foreign capital\ncontribution.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except tourist guides in\nforeign-invested enterprises shall\nbe Vietnamese citizens. Foreign\nservice supplying enterprises can\nonly do inbound services and\ndomestic travel for inbound\ntourists as an integral part of\ninbound services.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['10. RECREATIONAL, CULTURAL AND SPORTING SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Entertainment services\n(including theatre, live bands\nand circus services)\n(CPC 9619)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound except after 5 years from\nthe date of WTO accession, joint\nventures with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 49% are\npermitted.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['D. Other\n- Electronic games business\n(CPC 964**)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Only through business cooperation\ncontract or joint-venture with\nVietnamese partners who are\nspecifically authorized to provide\nthese services. Foreign capital', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 46 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'contribution shall not exceed 49%\nof the legal capital of the joint\nventures.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Maritime Transport\nServices\n(a) Passenger transportation less\ncabotage\n(CPC 7211)\n(b) Freight transportation less\ncabotage\n(CPC 7212)', '(1) Unbound, except international\nfreight transportation: None.\n(2) None.\n(3) (a) Establishment of registered\ncompanies for the purpose of\noperating a fleet under the national\nflag of Viet Nam:\nAfter 2 years from the date of WTO\naccession, foreign service suppliers\nare permitted to establish joint-\nventures with foreign capital\ncontribution not exceeding 49% of\ntotal legal capital. Foreign seafarers\nmay be permitted to work in ships\nunder the national flag of Viet Nam\n(or registered in Viet Nam) owned\nby joint-ventures in Viet Nam but\nnot exceeding 1/3 of total\nemployees of the ships. The Master\nor first chief executive must be\nVietnamese citizen.\n(b) Other forms of commercial\npresence for the supply of\ninternational maritime transport\nservices27:\nUpon WTO accession, foreign\nshipping companies can establish\njoint ventures with 51% foreign\nownership. After 5 years from the', '(1) Unbound, except international\nfreight transportation: None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', "The following services at the port are\nmade available to international\nmaritime transport suppliers on\nreasonable and non-discriminatory\nterms and conditions:\n1. Pilotage;\n2. Towing and tug assistance;\n3. Provisioning, fuelling and\nwatering\n4. Garbage collecting and ballast\nwaste disposal;\n5. Port Captain's/Harbour Master's\nservices;\n6. Navigation aids;\n7. Shore-based operational\nservices essential to ship\noperations, including\ncommunications, water and\nelectrical supplies;\n8. Emergency repair facilities;\n9. Anchorage, berth and berthing\nservices;\n10. Access to maritime agency\nservices.28"]]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 47 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'date of WTO accession, foreign\nshipping companies can establish\n100% foreign-invested enterprises.\nUpon WTO accession, foreign-\ninvested enterprises are only\npermitted to carry out activities\nfrom (1) to (5) as indicated below:\n1. Marketing and sales maritime\ntransport services through direct\ncontact with customers, from\nquotation to invoicing;\n2. Acting on behalf of the cargo\nowners;\n3. Provision of required business\ninformation;\n4. Preparation of documentation\nconcerning transport documents\nincluding customs documents,\nor other documents related to\nthe origin and character of the\ngoods transported; and\n5. Provision of maritime transport\nservices including cabotage\nservices by Vietnamese flagged\nvessels for the supply of\nintegrated transport services.\nAfter 5 years from the date of\nWTO accession, activities from (6)\nto (7) shall be allowed.\n6. Acting on behalf of the\ncompany, organising the call of\nthe ship or taking over cargoes\nwhen required;', '', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 48 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '7. Negotiate and sign contracts for\nroad, rail, inland waterways\ntransportation related to cargoes\ntransported by the company.', '', ''], ['', 'The number of joint ventures by\nforeign shipping companies will be\nlimited to 5 companies upon WTO\naccession. 29 Three additional\ncompanies will be allowed every\ntwo years thereafter. After 5 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession, no\nlimitation on the number of joint\nventures.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['Maritime Auxiliary Services\n- Container handling services\n(CPC 7411)30', '(1) Unbound*\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that upon WTO\naccession joint ventures with\nforeign capital contribution not\nexceeding 50% can be established.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['- Customs Clearance Services31', '(1) Unbound*\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that upon WTO\naccession joint ventures with\nforeign capital contribution not', '(1) Unbound*.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 49 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'exceeding 51% can be established.\nAfter 5 years, joint ventures can be\nestablished with no foreign\nownership limitation.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['- Container Station and Depot\nServices32', '(1) Unbound.*\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except that upon WTO\naccession joint ventures with\nforeign capital contribution not\nexceeding 51% can be established.\nSeven years upon WTO accession,\nnone.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.*\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['B. Internal Waterways\nTransport\n(a) Passenger transport\n(CPC 7221)\n(b) Freight transport\n(CPC 7222)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Upon WTO accession, foreign\nservice suppliers are permitted to\nprovide services only through the\nestablishment of joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners in which the\ncapital contribution of foreign side\nnot exceeding 49% of total legal\ncapital.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['C. Air Transport Services\n(a) Sales and marketing air\nproducts services', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Airlines are permitted to provide\nservice in Viet Nam through their\nticketing offices or agents in\nViet Nam.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 50 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(b) Computer reservation services', '(1) None, except the foreign service\nsupplier must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nthe management of Viet Nam\ntelecommunication authority.\n(2) None, except as indicated in\nMode 1.\n(3) None, except as indicated in\nMode 1.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['(c) Maintenance and repair of\naircraft (CPC 8868**)', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) Upon WTO accession, joint-\nventures are permitted with the\ncapital contribution of foreign side\nnot exceeding 51%. After 5 years\nfrom the date of WTO accession,\n100% foreign-invested enterprises\nshall be allowed.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) None.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['E. Rail Transport Services\n(a) Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7111)\n(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7112)', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound except: Foreign suppliers\nare permitted to provide freight\ntransport services through the\nestablishment of joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners in which the\ncapital contribution of foreign side\nnot exceeding 49% of the total legal\ncapital.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) Unbound.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 51 -
 Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['F. Road Transport Services\n(a) Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7121+7122)\n(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7123)', "(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None, except:\nUpon WTO accession, foreign\nservice suppliers are permitted to\nprovide passenger and freight\ntransport services through business\ncooperation contracts or joint-\nventures with the capital\ncontribution of foreign side not\nexceeding 49%.\nAfter 3 years from the date of WTO\naccession, subject to the needs of\nthe market33, joint-ventures with\nforeign capital contribution not\nexceeding 51% may be established\nto provide freight transport services.\nOne hundred % of joint-venture's\ndrivers shall be Vietnamese citizen.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.", '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', ''], ['H. Services Auxiliary to all\nModes of Transport\n(a) Container handling services,\nexcept services provided at\nairports\n(part of CPC 7411)', '(1) Unbound *\n(2) None.\n(3) Upon WTO accession, foreign\nservice suppliers are only permitted\nto provide services through the\nestablishment of joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners with the\ncapital contribution of foreign side\nnot exceeding 50%.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
 KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 52 -
Mode of delivery:  (1)  Cross-border supply             (2)  Consumption abroad            (3)  Commercial presence             (4)  Presence of natural person 
[['Sectors and sub-sectors', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(d) Other\n(part of CPC 749)34', '(1) Unbound, except freight brokerage\nservices: None after 5 years from\nthe date of WTO accession.\n(2) None.\n(3) Upon WTO accession, foreign\nservice suppliers are only permitted\nto provide services through the\nestablishment of joint ventures with\nVietnamese partners with the capital\ncontribution of foreign side not\nexceeding 49%. After 3 years from\nthe date of WTO accession, this\nlimitation shall be 51%. Four years\nthereon, this capital limitation shall\nbe abolished.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '(1) Unbound, except freight brokerage\nservices: None after 5 years from\nthe date of WTO accession.\n(2) None.\n(3) None.\n(4) Unbound, except as indicated in\nthe horizontal section.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/VIE - 53 -
 REFERENCE PAPER  I. SCOPE  The following are definitions and principles on the regulatory framework for the basic telecommunications services.   Definitions  Users mean service consumers and service suppliers.    Essential facilities mean facilities of a public telecommunications transport network or service that (a) are exclusively or predominantly provided by a single or limited number of suppliers; and (b) cannot feasibly be economically or technically substituted in order to provide a service.  A major supplier is a supplier which has the ability to materially affect the terms of participation (having regard to price and supply) in the relevant market for basic telecommunications services as a result of:  (a) control over essential facilities; or  (b) use of its position in the market. 1. Competitive safeguards 1.1 Prevention of anti-competitive practices in telecommunications  Appropriate measures shall be maintained for the purpose of preventing suppliers who, alone or together, are a major supplier from engaging in or continuing anti-competitive practices. 1.2 Safeguards  The anti-competitive practices referred to above shall include in particular: (a) engaging in anti-competitive cross-subsidization;    (b) using information obtained from competitors with anti-competitive results; and (c) not making available to other services suppliers on a timely basis technical information about essential facilities and commercially relevant information which are necessary for them to provide services. 2. Interconnection 2.1 This section applies to linking with suppliers providing public telecommunications transport networks or services in order to allow the users of one supplier to communicate with users of another supplier and to access services provided by another supplier, where specific commitments are undertaken. 2.2 Interconnection to be ensured  Interconnection with a major supplier will be ensured at any technically feasible point in the network.  Such interconnection is provided. (a) under non-discriminatory terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and rates and of a quality no less favourable than that provided for its own like services or for like services of non-affiliated service suppliers or for its subsidiaries or other affiliates; (b) in a timely fashion, on terms, conditions (including technical standards and specifications) and cost-oriented rates that are transparent, reasonable, having regard to economic feasibility, and 
 sufficiently unbundled so that the supplier need not pay for network components or facilities that it does not require for the service to be provided; and (c) upon request, at points in addition to the network termination points offered to the majority of users, subject to charges that reflect the cost of construction of necessary additional facilities. 2.3 Public availability of the procedures for interconnection negotiations  The procedures applicable for interconnection to a major supplier will be made publicly available. 2.4 Transparency of interconnection arrangements  It is ensured that a major supplier will make publicly available either its interconnection agreements or a reference interconnection offer. 2.5 Interconnection:  dispute settlement  A service supplier requesting interconnection with a major supplier will have recourse, either:  (a) at any time; or (b) after a reasonable period of time which has been made publicly known to an independent domestic body, which may be a regulatory body as referred to in paragraph 5 below, to resolve disputes regarding appropriate terms, conditions and rates for interconnection within a reasonable period of time, to the extent that these have not been established previously. 3. Universal service  Any Party has the right to define the kind of universal service obligation it wishes to maintain.  Such obligations will not be regarded as anti-competitive per se, provided they are administered in a transparent, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral manner and are not more burdensome than necessary for the kind of universal service defined by the Party. 4. Public availability of licensing criteria  Where a licence is required, the following will be made publicly available: (a) all the licensing criteria and the period of time normally required to reach a decision concerning an application for a licence; and (b) the terms and conditions of individual licenses.  The reasons for the denial of a licence will be made known to the applicant upon request. 5. Independent regulators  The regulatory body is separate from, and not accountable to, any supplier of basic telecommunications services. The decisions of and the procedures used by regulators shall be impartial with respect to all market participants. 6. Allocation and use of scarce resources  Any procedures for the allocation and use of scarce resources, including frequencies, numbers and rights of way, will be carried out in an objective, timely, transparent and non-discriminatory manner.  The current state of allocated frequency bands will be made publicly available, but detailed identification of frequencies allocated for specific government uses is not required.  
    PROTOCOL ON THE ACCESSION OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND TO THE AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS      The Governments of the Republic of Korea and Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  RECALLING the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, dated twenty first day of November 2007, hereinafter referred to as “the Agreement on Trade in Services”;  RECALLING the agreement for the Kingdom of Thailand to be included in the Agreement on Trade in Services only after the relevant signature on her behalf has been appended;   RECOGNISING the agreement that the Kingdom of Thailand may sign the Agreement on Trade in Services at a later date upon the completion of her parliamentary procedure; and  TAKING NOTE of the Summary of Decisions of the 22 Korea-ASEAN Trade Negotiating Committee (KA-TNC) Meeting on the eleventh day of April 2008 in Busan, Republic of Korea, the Summary of Decisions of the 21   KA-TNC Meeting on the eighteenth day of January 2008 in Baguio, the Philippines, and the Summary of Record of the 9 SEOM-ROK Consultations on the thirteenth day of March 2008 in Siem Reap, Cambodia on the accession of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Services,   HAVE AGREED as follows:   Article 1  1. The Kingdom of Thailand accedes to and shall be bound by the Agreement on Trade in Services, including its Annexes and Letter of Understanding which form an 
 integral part of that Agreement, as rectified, amended or otherwise modified before the date of entry into force of this Protocol.  2. The signature of the Kingdom of Thailand to this Protocol shall be treated as the signature of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Services and Letter of Understanding which form an integral part of that Agreement.    Article 2  This Protocol, including the Kingdom of Thailand’s Schedule of Specific Commitments, shall be an integral part of the Agreement on Trade in Services.   Article 3  In the event of any inconsistency between the Agreement on Trade in Services, including its Annexes and Letter of Understanding which form an integral part of that Agreement, and this Protocol, including the Kingdom of Thailand’s Schedule of Specific commitments, the former shall prevail over the latter with respect to the Kingdom of Thailand, except for the following:  (a) the Kingdom of Thailand’s Schedule of Specific Commitments; and  (b) the Article 6 of this Protocol.   Article 4  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Protocol shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof to each ASEAN Member Country.   Article 5  Any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Protocol shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.   Article 6  1. Subject to paragraph 2, this Protocol shall enter into force for all the Parties on the date on which the Kingdom of Thailand has notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures. 
 2. In the event that a Party notifies all the other Parties in writing within one (1) month from the date of signing of this Protocol that it requires to complete its internal procedures, this Protocol shall enter into force for that Party upon the date of notification of the completion of its internal procedures.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Protocol on the Accession of the Kingdom of Thailand to the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of the Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE at Cha-am, Phetchaburi Province, Thailand, this 27day of February 2009, in duplicate copies in the English language.   For the Government of the Republic of Korea:     KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade   For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:     LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade   For the Royal Government of Cambodia:     CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce   For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:     MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade       
 For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:     NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce    For the Government of Malaysia:      TAN SRI MUHYIDDIN YASSIN Minister of International Trade and Industry    For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:     U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development    For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:     PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry   
   For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:     LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand:     PORNTIVA NAKASAI Minister of Commerce         For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:     VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade   
    KOREA-ASEAN AGREEMENT ON TRADE IN SERVICES                  ANNEX /SC1 _________________________________________________________________________        THAILAND  Schedule of Specific Commitments  (For the First Package of Commitments)                     
 THAILAND –SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '1), 2), 3), 4) For a service supplier of\nanother Party who is a natural person of\nthat Party but is not a national of that\nParty: Unbound\n3) Unless otherwise specified at the sector-\nspecific level, commercial presence in\nsectors or subsectors in this schedule is\npermitted only through a limited\nliability company which is registered in\nThailand and which meets the following\nconditions:\n(a) Foreign equity participation\nmust not exceed 49 per cent of\nthe registered capital;\nand\n(b) The number of foreign\nshareholders must be less than\nhalf of the total number of\nshareholders of the company\nconcerned.', '1), 2), 3), 4) For a service supplier of\nanother Party who is a natural person of\nthat Party but is not a national of that\nParty: Unbound\n3) Unless otherwise specified at the sector-\nspecific level, for commercial entity\nincorporated pursuant to Thailand’s\nlaws and regulations with foreign equity\nparticipation not exceeding 49 percent\nof the registered capital : None\nOthers : Unbound, including subsidies', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 2 -                                                            
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unless otherwise specified at the sector-\nspecific level, temporary movement of\nnatural persons is unbound except in the\nfollowing categories.', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the MA\ncolumn\nContractual Service Suppliers :\nUnbound', ''], ['', 'I. Business Visitors (BV)\n(a) Service sellers:\nRepresentatives of a service supplier who\nenter and stay in Thailand temporarily\nwithout receiving remuneration from\nwithin Thailand for the sale of goods or\nservices or entering into agreement for\nsuch sale for that services supplier.\n(b) Persons responsible for establishing a\ncommercial presence:\nRepresentatives of a service supplier who\nenter and stay in Thailand temporarily for\nthe purposes of:\n- participating in business meetings or\ncontacts,\n- visiting of business establishments or\nother similar activities,\n- entering with a purpose to establish a\ncommercial presence of a service supplier\nin Thailand when the service supplier has\nno commercial presence in Thailand.\nCondition:\nRepresentatives of such service suppliers\nor employees of such juridical person will\nnot be engaged in making direct sales to\nthe general public or in supplying\nservices themselves.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 3 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Duration of stay:\nTemporary stay will be permitted and a\nwork permit granted, when apply for, for\nan initial period of not more than 90 days.\nRepresentative of category (b) may be\nextended for a further period of not more\nthan one year from the arrival date,\nprovided that the criteria stipulated by the\nImmigration Bureau and the Department\nof Employment have been satisfied.', '', ''], ['', 'II. Intra-corporate Transferees (ICT)\nEmployees of a company established in the\nterritory of a Party who are transferred\ntemporarily for the supply of a service\nthrough commercial presence in Thailand.\nThe employees refer to Executives,\nManagers, or Specialists as defined below.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 4 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Manager is defined as:\nA person within an organization who\nprimarily directs the organization, or a\ndepartment or sub-division of the\norganization; supervises and controls the\nwork of other supervisory, professional or\nmanagerial employees; has the authority to\nhire and fire or recommend hiring, firing, or\nother personnel actions (such as promotion or\nleave authorization); and exercises\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. Does not include first-line\nsupervisors, unless the employees supervised\nare professionals, nor does it include\nemployees who primarily perform tasks\nnecessary for the provision of the service.\nExecutive is defined as:\nA person within an organization who\nprimarily directs the management of the\norganization, exercises wide latitude in\ndecision-making, and receives only general\nsupervision or direction from higher-level\nexecutives (the board of directors, or\nshareholders of the business). An executive\nwould not directly perform tasks related to\nthe actual provision of a service or services of\nthe organization.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 5 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Specialist is defined as:\nA person within an organization who\npossesses knowledge at an advanced level of\ncontinued expertise essential to the\nestablishment provision of the service and/or\npossesses proprietary knowledge of the\norganization’s services, research equipment,\ntechniques, or management.\nCondition:\nSuch employees must have been employed by\nthe company concerned outside Thailand for\na period of not less than one year\nimmediately preceding the date of his or her\napplication for admission; have satisfied the\ncriteria stipulated by the Immigration Bureau\nand hold a Non-Immigration visa; and have\nsatisfied the criteria for management needs1\nstipulated by the Department of Employment.\nDuration of stay:\nTemporary stay will be permitted and a work\npermit granted, when apply for, for a one year\nperiod, and may be extended for a further\nthree terms of not more than one year each\nsubject to verification of ongoing\nemployment with original employer and\ncompliance with relevant Thai laws and\nregulations.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 6 -                                                            
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'III. Contractual Service Suppliers (CSS)\nDefinition:\nEmployees of a foreign based company\nwho enter and stay in Thailand temporarily\nin order to perform service pursuant to a\ncontract between their employer and a\ncompany (service consumer) incorporated\nin Thailand.\nCondition:\nAccess is subject to the following\nconditions and those in sector-specific\ncommitments, where applicable:\nUpon the foreign-based company:\n- The foreign-based company has no\ncommercial presence in Thailand, and\n- has obtained a service contract for the\nprovision of a service in Thailand for a\nperiod not exceeding three months from\na company incorporated in Thailand.\nUpon the service contract:\n- The service contract shall comply with\nthe laws, regulations and requirements of\nThailand.\n- The contract has to be obtained in the\nsub-sectors below without conferring\nentitlement to practice as a licensed\nprofessional in Thailand.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 7 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Upon the employees:\n- The employees must meet the\nrequirements prescribed for “Specialist”\nabove,\n- have been offering such services as an\nemployee of the foreign-based company\nsupplying the services for at least the\nyear immediately preceding the date of\nhis or her application for admission,\n- have processed the necessary academic\nand professional qualifications as\nspecified for the sector or activity\nconcerned,\n- have satisfied the criteria stipulated by\nthe Immigration Bureau and hold a Non-\nImmigration visa, and\n- have satisfied the criteria for\nmanagement needs stipulated by the\nDepartment of Employment.\nDuration of stay:\nThe Temporary stay will be permitted and a\nwork permit granted, when apply for, for a\nperiod of not more than one year or the\nduration of the contract, whichever is less.\nThe sub-sectors applicable:\nAs below:\n- Consultancy services related to the\ninstallation of computer hardware (CPC\n84100)\n- Software implementation services (CPC\n84210+84220+84230+ 84240+84250)\n- Data processing services (excluding those', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 8 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'provided over public telecommunications\nnetwork) (CPC 84310+84320+84330+\n84390)\n- Data base services (excluding those\nprovided over public telecommunications\nnetwork) (CPC 84400)\n- Other computer services : Software\ntraining services for staff of clients (part\nof CPC 84900)\n- General Management Consulting\nServices (CPC 86501)\n- Hotel Lodging Services (CPC 64110)\n- Restaurant Services (CPC 64210)\n- Related scientific and technical\nconsulting services for oil and gas\nexploration and production (part of CPC\n8675)\n- Environmental services (CPC 9401-\n9409), except Engineer', '', ''], ['', '3),4) Regarding acquisition and usage of\nland according to the Land Code of\nThailand, foreign nationals or\ndomestic companies which are\ndeemed foreigners are not allowed to\npurchase or own land in Thailand.\nHowever, they may lease land and\nown buildings. Foreigners are also\nallowed to own part of condominium\nunits under the laws and regulations\ngoverning the ownership of\ncondominiums.', '3), 4) Acquisition and usage of land:\nUnbound, except as provided in the\nMA column', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 9 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS\nSERVICES\nA. Professional Services\n(a) Legal services\n(CPC 86111+86119+\n86120+86130+86190)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(b) Accounting, auditing\nand bookkeeping\nservices (CPC 86211\nto 86213\n+86219+86220)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(d) Architectural services\n(CPC 86711 to\n86714+86719', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 86721 to 86727\n+86729)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(g) Urban planning and\nlandscape\narchitectural services\n(CPC 86741 to 86742)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 10 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices\n(a) Consultancy services\nrelated to the\ninstallation of\ncomputer hardware\n(CPC 84100)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby Ministry of Information and\nCommunications Technology\n(hereinafter “ICT Ministry”), otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(b) Software\nimplementation\nservices (excluding\nprogramming and\nsystems maintenance\nservices)\n(CPC 84210+84220\n+84230)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby ICT Ministry, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Programming and\nsystems maintenance\nservices\n(CPC 84240+84250)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 11 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby ICT Ministry, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section', 'may be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) Data processing\nservices (excluding\nthose provided over\npublic\ntelecommunications\nnetwork)\n(CPC 84310+84320\n+84330+84390)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby ICT Ministry, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(d) Data base services\n(excluding those\nprovided over public\ntelecommunications\nnetwork)\n(CPC 84400)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby ICT Ministry, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(e) Other computer\nservices: software\ntraining services for\nstaff of clients (part of\nCPC 84900)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 12 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to numerical ceilings and\nspecific qualification requirements set\nby ICT Ministry, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section', 'specified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['E. Rental/Leasing\nServices without\nOperators', '', '', ''], ['(d) Rental and leasing\nservices concerning\nagricultural\nmachinery,\nconstruction\nmachinery, office\nmachinery, other\nmachinery and\nequipment without\noperator\n(CPC 83106-83109)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['F. Other Business\nServices', '', '', ''], ['(a) Advertising services\n(CPC 87110+87120\n+87190)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 13 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(b) Market research and\npublic opinion polling\nservices\n(CPC 86401 to 86402)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) General management\nconsulting services\n(CPC 86501)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for legal and auditing\nconsultants', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(e) Technical testing and\nanalysis services\n(CPC 86761+86769)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 14 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(f) Services incidental to\nagriculture:\nConsultancy services\non agricultural\nextension:\n- soil preparation\n- seed production\n- plant protection\n- harvesting\n- grading\n- packing\n- storaging', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Soil analysis\nlaboratory', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Soil survey and land\nuse Planning', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Cover crop seed\nmultiplication', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 15 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(f) Services incidental to\nforestry:', '', '', ''], ['Forestry consultant\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(g) Services incidental to\nfishing:', '', '', ''], ['International trading,\nexporting products\nservices (broker)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Quality analysis\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Canning process\nanalysis services', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal sections', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 16 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Technical services\n- Consulting\n- Research on\nmarketing\n- Quality control', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(h) Services incidental to\nmining at oil and gas\nfields', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(m) Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting\nservices (CPC 8675)\n- Oil and gas\nexploration and\nproduction (part of\nCPC 8675)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) Entry of contractual service\nsuppliers will be subject to the approval\nof the Petroleum Committee required in\nPetroleum Act, otherwise as indicated\nin the horizontal section\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 17 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(n) Maintenance and\nrepair services of\noffice machinery and\nequipment including\ncomputers\n(CPC 84500)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(q) Packaging services\n(CPC 87600)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(r) Publishing and\nprinting services\nexcluding publishing\nnewspaper\n(CPC 88442)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['(t) Other\nTranslation and\ninterpretation services\n(CPC 87905)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 18 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['2. COMMUNICATION SERVICES\nC. Telecommunications Services\nCommitments undertaken in this offer are subject to the following general conditions:\n- Each service to be supplied in Thailand requires a specific governmental licence.\n- Licences are granted only to service suppliers duly constituted according to the Thai legislation, which requires head office and management located in the\nThai territory.\n- Due to scarce resources, the number of licences may be limited.\n- The services in the Schedule of Specific Commitments shall be on facilities basis.\n- The service provider shall be a Thai registered company with foreign equity participation not exceeding 20 per cent of the registered capital and the number\nof foreign shareholders must not exceed 20 per cent of the total number of shareholders of the company.\n- Conditional upon passage and coming into force of all necessary new communication acts, commencing from the year of 2006, commitments on public\ntelecommunication services will be introduced, and carried out in accordance with the implementing regulations to be issued by virtue of those acts.', None, None, None], ['Public local, domestic\nlong distance and\ninternational services:\n(a) Voice telephone\nservices\n(b) Telex services\n(c) Telegraph services\n(d) Facsimile services', '1),2) None, other than traffic shall be routed\nthrough a gateway in Thailand operated\nby a supplier duly licensed; the\nprovision of concerned services shall be\nagreed by the supplier duly licensed of\nboth ends.\n3) Conditional upon passage and coming\ninto force of all necessary new\ncommunication acts, commencing from\nthe year of 2006, Thailand will\nintroduce the market access elements as\ncontained in those acts into the relevant\nparts of its Schedule of Specific\nCommitments relating to the supply of\npublic telecommunication services.', '1),2) None\n3) Conditional upon passage and coming\ninto force of all necessary new\ncommunication acts, commencing from\nthe year of 2006, Thailand will\nintroduce the national treatment\nelements as contained in those acts into\nthe relevant parts of its Schedule of\nSpecific Commitments relating to the\nsupply of public telecommunication', 'Conditional upon passage and\ncoming into force of all\nnecessary new communication\nacts, commencing from the year\nof 2006, Thailand will\nintroduce into its Schedule of\nSpecific Commitments on\npublic telecommunication\nservices its treatment on the\nsubjects relating to competitive\nsafeguards, interconnection,\nuniversal service, public\navailability of licensing criteria,\nseparation of regulatory and\noperational functions, and the\nallocation and use of scarce\nresources.']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 19 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', 'services.\n4) Unbound as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['(j) Data base access\nservices (part of CPC\n7523)', '1) 1.1 Service providers must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities;\n1.2 Radio application service is\nsubject to frequency availability.\n2) None\n3) (a) Shall be a Thai registered\ncompany with foreign equity\nparticipation not exceeding 40 per\ncent of the registered capital and\nthe number of foreign shareholders\nmust not exceed 40 per cent of the\ntotal number of shareholders of the\ncompany\n(b) Such company shall be permitted\nunder the built-transferred-\noperated concept\n(c) Must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) No limitations as long as foreign equity\nparticipation does not exceed 40 per\ncent\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 20 -(n) On-line information and/or data processing services  (part of CPC 843) 1) 1.1 Services providers must use telecommunication network under national telecommunication authorities;  1.2 Radio application service is subject to frequency availability 1) None  
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '2) None\n3) (a) Shall be a Thai registered company\nwith foreign equity participation not\nexceeding 40 per cent of the\nregistered capital and the number of\nforeign shareholders must not\nexceed 40 per cent of the total\nnumber of shareholders of the\ncompany\n(b) Such company shall be permitted\nunder the built-transferred-operated\nconcept\n(c) Must use public telecommunication\nnetwork under national\ntelecommunication authorities\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '2) None\n3) No limitations as long as foreign equity\nparticipation does not exceed 40 per\ncent\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(o) Other\nTelecommunications\nequipment sales\nservices (part of CPC\n75420)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Telecommunications\nconsulting services\n(CPC 75440)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 21 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Videotext\n(part of CPC 75299)', '1) 1.1 Service providers must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities;\n1.2 Radio application service is subject\nto frequency availability\n2) None\n3) (a) Shall be a Thai registered company\nwith foreign equity participation\nnot exceeding 40 per cent of the\nregistered capital and the number\nof foreign shareholders must not\nexceed 40 per cent of the total\nnumber of shareholders of the\ncompany\n(b) Such company shall be permitted\nunder the built-transferred-\noperated concept by national\ntelecommunication authorities2', '1) None\n2) None\n3) No limitations as long as foreign equity\nparticipation does not exceed 40 per\ncent', ''], ['', '(c) Must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities\n(d) Selection of service providers shall\nbe based on open tender\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 22 - Teleconference (part of CPC 75292) 1) 1.1 Service providers must use public telecommunication network under national telecommunication authorities;  1.2 Radio application service is subject 1) None                                                                 
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'to frequency availability\n2) None\n3) (a) Shall be a Thai registered company\nwith foreign equity participation not\nexceeding 40 per cent of the\nregistered capital and the number of\nforeign shareholders must not\nexceed 40 per cent of the total\nnumber of shareholders of the\ncompany\n(b) Such company shall be permitted\nunder the built-transferred-operated\nconcept by national\ntelecommunication authorities3\n(c) Must use public telecommunication\nnetwork under national\ntelecommunication authorities\n(d) Selection of service providers shall\nbe based on open tender\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '2) None\n3) No limitations as long as foreign equity\nparticipation does not exceed 40 per\ncent\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 23 - Domestic leased circuits (part of CPC 75299) 1) 1.1 Service providers must use public telecommunication network under national telecommunication authorities;  1.2 Radio application service is subject to frequency availability 2) None 3) (a) Shall be a Thai registered company with foreign equity participation not exceeding 40 per cent of the 1) None      2) None 3) No limitations as long as foreign equity participation does not exceed 40 per cent                                                               
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'registered capital and the number\nof foreign shareholders must not\nexceed 40 per cent of the total\nnumber of shareholders of the\ncompany\n(b) Such company shall be permitted\nunder the built-transferred-\noperated concept by national\ntelecommunication authorities4\n(c) Must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities\n(d) Selection of service providers shall\nbe based on open tender\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['D. Audiovisual Services\n(a) Film/video production\nand distribution\nservices excluding\npromotion or\nadvertising services\n(CPC 96112+96113)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) Radio/television\nservices only for\nproduction of\nradio/TV programmes\n(CPC 96131+96132)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 24 -                                                             
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3. CONSTRUCTION\nAND RELATED\nENGINEERING\nSERVICES\nA. Construction Work for\nBuildings\n(CPC 51210+51220\n+51230+51240+5125\n0+ 51260\n+51270+51280+\n51290)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['B. Construction Work for\nCivil Engineering\n(CPC 51310+51320\n+51330+51340+5135\n0+51360+51371+513\n72 +51390)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['C. Installation Work\n(CPC\n51610+51620+51630\n+51641+51642+5164\n3+51644+51649+516\n50+51660+51691+\n51699)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 25 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Assembly Work\n(CPC 51400)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['D. Building Completion\nand Finishing Work\n(CPC 51710+51720\n+51730+51740+5175\n0\n+51760+51770+5178\n0\n+51790)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['E. Other\nPre-erection Work at\nConstruction Site\n(CPC', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 26 -                                                            
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['51110+51120+51130\n+51140+51150+5116\n0)\nSpecial Trade\nConstruction\n(CPC\n51510+51520+51530\n+51540+51550+5156\n0+51590)\nRenting services\nrelated to equipment\nfor construction or\ndemolition of\nbuildings or civil\nengineering works\nwith operator\n(CPC 51800)', '4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ["4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES\nA. Commission Agents'\nServices\n(CPC 62111 to 62118)", '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 27 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['5. EDUCATIONAL\nSERVICES\nA + B. International and\nNational School\nEducation Services\n(excluding adult\nand other\neducation services)\n(CPC 9219+9221\n+9222)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Foreign natural persons may enter\nThailand to supply education services\nprovided that:\n(1) the natural persons are invited or\nemployed by education institutions\nduly established and registered in\nThailand;\n(2) the natural persons possess\nqualification and experiences set\nby such institutions as well as\nmeeting other criteria that may be\nset by Ministry of Education,\nwhere applicable.\nThe initial temporary stay shall be one\nyear or the duration of employment\nperiod, whichever is shorter, with\npossibility of extension.\nOthers : As indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['B. Technical and\nVocational Education\nServices (CPC\n9223+9224)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Foreign natural persons may enter\nThailand to supply education services\nprovided that:', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 28 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(1) the natural persons are invited or\nemployed by education institutions\nduly established and registered in\nThailand;\n(2) the natural persons possess\nqualification and experiences set\nby such institutions as well as\nmeeting other criteria that may be\nset by Ministry of Education,\nwhere applicable\nThe initial temporary stay shall be one\nyear or the duration of employment\nperiod, whichever is shorter, with\npossibility of extension.\nOthers : As indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '', ''], ['C. Higher education\nservices\n(CPC 92300)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Foreign natural persons may enter\nThailand to supply education services\nprovided that:\n(1) the natural persons are invited or\nemployed by education institutions\nduly established and registered in\nThailand;\n(2) the natural persons possess\nqualification and experiences set\nby such institutions as well as\nmeeting other criteria that may be\nset by Ministry of Education where', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 29 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'applicable\nThe initial temporary stay shall be one\nyear or the duration of employment\nperiod, whichever is shorter, with\npossibility of extension.\nOthers : As indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '', ''], ['D. Professional and/or\nShort Courses\nEducation Services\n(CPC 92400)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Foreign natural persons may enter\nThailand to supply education services\nprovided that:\n(1) the natural persons are invited or\nemployed by education institutions\nduly established and registered in\nThailand;\n(2) the natural persons possess\nqualification and experiences set\nby such institutions as well as\nmeeting other criteria that may be\nset by Ministry of Education,\nwhere applicable\nThe initial temporary stay shall be one\nyear or the duration of employment\nperiod, whichever is shorter, with\npossibility of extension.\nOthers : As indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 30 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Other education\nservices (CPC 92900)\nForeign language\ntuition services (part\nof CPC 92900)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Foreign natural persons may enter\nThailand to supply education services\nprovided that:\n(1) the natural persons are invited or\nemployed by education institutions duly\nestablished and registered in Thailand;\n(2) the natural persons possess\nqualification and experiences set\nby such institutions as well as\nmeeting other criteria that may be\nset by Ministry of Education,\nwhere applicable\nThe initial temporary stay shall be one\nyear or the duration of employment\nperiod, whichever is shorter, with\npossibility of extension.\nOthers : As indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 31 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL\nSERVICES\nA. Environmental\nConsultancy on\nSewage System,\nRefuse Disposal,\nHazardous Waste\nManagement, Air\nPollution and Noise\nManagement,\nSanitation and Other\nEnvironmental\nManagement Services\n(CPC 9401)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Environmental\nProtection and\nEnvironmental\nAbatement Services\n(CPC 9401)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Sewage Services\n(including industrial\nwaste water treatment\nsystem) (CPC 9401)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 32 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Refuse Disposal\nServices (including\nhazardous waste\nmanagement and\nincinerator)\n(CPC 9402)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['C. Sanitation and Similar\nServices\n(CPC 9403)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['D. Other\nCleaning services of\nexhaust gases\n(including industrial\nemission abatement)\n(CPC 9404)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Noise abatement\nservices (CPC 9405)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 33 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'as indicated in the horizontal section', '', ''], ['Nature and landscape\nprotection services\n(CPC 9406)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Other environmental\nprotection services\n(CPC 9409)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Entry of contractual service suppliers\nmay subject to qualification\nrequirements set by Ministry of Natural\nResources and Environment, otherwise\nas indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\n- With regard to the scope of operation and types of financial services that can be provided, each type of financial institution will be permitted to\noperate the sector or sub-sector of banking and other financial services only to the extent that their respective governing legislation permit them to do\nso.\n- All commitments in this sector are subject to horizontal commitments in Thailand’s GATS schedule of specific commitments.', None, None, None]]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 34 -A. Insurance including Reinsurance and retrocession     (a) Life insurance services (CPC 81211) 1) None 2) None   1) None 2) Life insurance premium is tax deductible up to a certain amount for holders of policies issued by local  
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) (a) Foreign equity participation\nlimited to 25 per cent of registered\nshare capital.\n(b) New establishment is subject to\nlicence approved by the Minister\nwith the consent of the Cabinet.\n4) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants with\nthe approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.', 'companies.\n3) None other than that indicated in the\nMA column\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(b) Non-life insurance\nservices\n(CPC 8129)', '1) Unbound except for international\nmarine, aviation and transit and all\nclasses of reinsurance.\n2) None\n3) (a) Foreign equity participation limited\nto 25 per cent of registered share\ncapital.\n(b) New establishment is subject to\nlicense approved by the Minister\nwith the consent of the Cabinet.\n4) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants with\nthe approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None other than that indicated in the\nMA column\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(d) Services auxiliary to\ninsurance (excluding\npension funding\nservices)\nInsurance broking and\nagency services (CPC\n81401) (Brokers shall', '1 Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Foreign equity participation not to\nexceed 25 per cent.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None other than that indicated in the\nMA column', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 35 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['not induce, advise or\ndo any acts so as to\ncause any person to\nenter into insurance\ncontracts with insurers\nabroad, except for\nreinsurance contracts)', '4) (a) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants\nwith the approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.\n(b) Unbound for individual broker and\nagent.', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Insurance consultancy\nservices excluding\npension consulting\nservices (CPC 81402)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants with\nthe approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Average and loss\nadjustment services\n(CPC 81403)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants with\nthe approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Actuarial Services\n(CPC 81404)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Only senior managerial personnel,\nspecialists and technical assistants with\nthe approval of the Insurance\nCommissioner.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 36 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Services auxiliary to\nfinancial\nintermediation other\nthan to insurance and\npension funding\nservices\nCredit card services\n(CPC 81133)\n(Mobilizing funds\nfrom the public is\nprohibited, unless\nlicensed under a\nfinancial law)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) As indicated in B(3)(j) below.\n(b) Financial institutions must obtain\nprior approval from the Bank of\nThailand.\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Financial consultancy\nservices (CPC 81332)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 37 -B. Banking and Other Financial Services      Acceptance of deposits and other repayable funds from the public   Lending of all types, including consumer credit, mortgage credit, factoring and financing of 1) None for financial advisory and financial data processing.  Unbound for all other services. 2) None for financial advisory and financial data processing.  Unbound for all other services. 3) (a)  Representative office of banks: None.    (b) Foreign bank branches: 1) None   2) None   3) (a) Representative office of banks:  None   (b) Foreign bank branches:  
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['commercial\ntransactions\nFinancial leasing\nPayment and money\ntransmission services\nincluding credit,\ncharge and debit\ncards, travellers\ncheques and bankers\ndrafts\nGuarantees and\ncommitments', 'I. None for existing foreign bank\nbranches under present\nshareholding structure.\nNew establishment is subject to\nlicence approved by the Minister\nof Finance with the consent of the\nCabinet.\nII. ATM operations permitted under\nthe following conditions only:\n(i) joining ATM pools operated\nby Thai banks; or\n(ii) operation within own\npremises or sharing the\nfacilities with other\ncommercial banks in\nThailand.', 'None, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column.', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 38 - Trading for own account, or for account of customers in the following:  (a) money market instruments  (b)  foreign exchange  (c) exchange rate and interest rate instruments  (d) transferable securities  III. Existing foreign banks which already had the first branch office in Thailand prior to July 1995 will each be permitted to open no more than two additional branches.   IV. None for participation in cheque clearing and settlement system.   (c) Locally incorporated banks   I. Market access limited to the acquisition of shares of existing banks.          (c) Locally incorporated banks   None, except as indicated in the market access column  
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Participation in issues\nof all kinds of\nsecurities, including\nunderwriting and\nplacement as agents\n(whether publicly or\nprivately) and\nprovision of services\nrelated to such issues', "II. (i) Maximum foreign equity\nparticipation limited to 25\nper cent of paid-up registered\ncapital. Combined\nshareholding of an individual\nand his/her related persons\nnot to exceed 5 per cent of\nbank's paid-up registered\ncapital.", '', ''], ['Asset management as\nfollows:\n- cash or portfolio\nmanagement\n- collective\ninvestment\nmanagement\n- custodian and\ndepository services\nAdvisory,\nintermediation and\nother auxiliary\nfinancial services\nProvision and transfer\nof financial\ninformation, and\nfinancial data\nprocessing and related\nsoftware', '(ii) The Minister of Finance\nupon recommendation of the\nBank of Thailand may relax\nthe above-mentioned limits\non maximum foreign equity\nparticipation and combined\nshareholding of an individual\nand his/her related persons,\nsubject to the terms and\nconditions announced by the\nMinister of Finance,\nincluding the following:\n- the relaxation is deemed\nnecessary to improve the\ncondition or business of the\ncommercial bank;\n- such equity participation will\nbe authorized for a period of\nup to 10 years, with foreign\nshareholders who enter in\nthis period being\ngrandfathered thereafter with\nrespect to the absolute\namount of their equity\nholding.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 39 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'III. At least three-fourths of the\ndirectors must be of Thai\nnationality. The Minister of\nFinance upon recommendation of\nthe Bank of Thailand may allow\nmore foreign nationals than\nspecified above subject to the same\nterms and conditions as stated in II\n(ii) above.\n(d) International Banking Facility5\nNew establishment is subject to\nlicence approved by the Minister\nof Finance\n(e) Finance companies and credit\nfoncier companies\nI. None for representative offices.\nII. Market access limited to the\nacquisition of shares of existing\ncompanies.\nIII. (i) Maximum foreign equity\nparticipation limited to 25\nper cent of paid-up registered\ncapital. Combined\nshareholding of an\nindividual and his/her related\npersons not to exceed 10 per\ncent.', '(d) International Banking Facility\nNone, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column\n(e) Finance companies and credit\nfoncier companies\nNone, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 40 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(ii) The Minister of Finance\nupon recommendation of the\nBank of Thailand may relax\nthe above-mentioned limits\non maximum foreign equity\nparticipation and combined\nshareholding of an individual\nand his/her related persons,\nsubject to the terms and\nconditions announced by the\nMinister of Finance,\nincluding the following:\n- the relaxation is deemed necessary\nto improve the condition or\nbusiness of the finance company\nand credit foncier company.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 41 -  - such equity participation will be authorized for a period of up to 10 years, with foreign shareholders who enter in this period being grandfathered thereafter with respect to the absolute amount of their equity holding.      IV. At least three-fourths of the directors must be of Thai nationality. The Minister of Finance upon recommendation of the Bank of Thailand may allow more foreign nationals than specified above subject to the same terms and conditions as stated in III(ii) above.    
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(f) Securities companies, Securities\nbrokerage, securities dealing,\ninvestment advisory service and\nsecurities underwriting:', '(f) Securities companies\nNone, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column', ''], ['', 'I. None for representative offices.\nII. Market access limited to share\nacquisition of existing companies\nonly. Unbound for new licences.\nIII. Maximum foreign equity\nparticipation limited to 49 per cent\nof paid-up registered capital.\nIV. At least one-half of the directors of\na locally incorporated securities\nfirm must be Thai national.', '', ''], ['', '(g) Asset management companies:\nI. None for representative offices.\nII. Market access limited to share\nacquisition of existing companies.\nIII. During the first five years after the\nlicence has been granted,\nmaximum foreign equity\nparticipation is limited to 25 per\ncent of paid-up registered capital\nand at least three-fourths of the\ndirectors must be Thai national.', '(g) Asset management companies\nNone, except as indicated in the\nmarket access column', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 42 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'IV. After five years, maximum foreign\nequity participation is limited to\n49 per cent of paid-up registered\ncapital and at least one-half of the\ndirectors must be Thai national.', '', ''], ['', '(h) Financial leasing services\nCan only be provided by leasing\ncompanies which are subject to\nmaximum foreign equity\nparticipation of 49 per cent of\npaid-up registered capital, or by\nfinance companies which are\nsubject to maximum foreign equity\nparticipation of 25 per cent of\npaid-up registered capital, except\nin (e) III (ii).\n(i) Factoring services\nCan only be provided by factoring\ncompanies which are subject to\nmaximum foreign equity\nparticipation of 49 per cent of paid-\nup registered capital, or by finance\ncompanies which are subject to\nmaximum foreign equity\nparticipation of 25 per cent of paid-\nup registered capital, except in (e) III\n(ii).', '(h) Financial leasing services\nNone\n(i) Factoring services\nNone', ''], ['', '(j) Credit, charge and debit cards\nCredit, charge and debit cards can\nonly be provided by companies\nwhich are subject to maximum', '(j) Credit, charge and debit cards\nNone', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 43 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'foreign equity participation of 49\npercent of paid-up registered\ncapital or locally incorporated\nbanks and foreign bank branches.\nThe conduct of businesses under h), i)\nand j) will be subject to licensing and\nregulations to be announced.', '', ''], ['', '4) Limitations on the number of foreign\npersonnel per foreign bank office:\n(a) two persons for banks operating as\nrepresentative office;\n(b) six persons for each full-licensed\nbranch;\n(c) four persons for each BIBF branch;\n(d) two persons for each PIBF branch;\n(e) eight persons for banks operating\nas full-licensed and BIBF branch;\nFor finance companies:\n(a) two persons for a representative\noffice;\n(b) Maximum of four directors\npermitted for finance companies;\nFor securities companies and asset and\nmanagement companies: two persons\nfor a representative office.', '', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 44 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['9. TOURISM AND\nTRAVEL RELATED\nSERVICES', '', '', ''], ['A. Hotel Lodging\nServices\n(CPC 64110)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Camping and caravan\nsite services\n(CPC 64195)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Restaurant Services\n(CPC 64210)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Catering Services\n(CPC 64230)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 45 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['B. Travel Agency and\nTour Operator\nServices\n(CPC 74710)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) In addition to that indicated in the\nhorizontal section, not less than half of\nthe board of directors of the company\nmust have Thai nationality\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['D. Other\nHotel management\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nHorizontal section', ''], ['10. RECREATIONAL,\nCULTURAL AND\nSPORTING\nSERVICES\nD. Sporting Services\n(excluding other\nsporting services\nspecified in CPC\n96419) (CPC 96411 +\n96412 + 96413)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal sections', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Recreation Park and\nBeach Services\n(CPC 96491)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 46 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['11. TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\nA. Maritime Transport\nServices\n(a) Passenger\ntransportation (CPC\n7211 less cabotage\ntransport: as defined\nbelow - 3.1)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound for establishment of\njuristic person for the purpose of\noperating a fleet under the national\nflag of Thailand', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound', 'The following services at\nthe port provided by the\ngovernment or\ngovernment enterprise are\nmade available, to\ninternational maritime\ntransport suppliers on\nreasonable and non-\ndiscriminatory terms and\nconditions:\n1. Pilotage6\n2. Towing and tug\nassistance\n3. Provisioning,\nfuelling and watering\n4. Garbage collecting\nand ballast waste\ndisposal']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 47 -                                                            
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "(b) Other forms of commercial\npresence for the supply of\ninternational maritime transport\nservices (as defined below - 3.2)\nexcept branch office: As indicated\nin the horizontal section.\n4) (a) Ships' crews: Unbound\n(b) Other personnel: As indicated in\nthe horizontal section", '(b) None\n4) (a) Unbound\n(b) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', "5. Port captain's service\n6. Navigation aids\n7. Shore-based\noperational services\nessential to ship\noperations, water and\nelectrical supplies\n8. Emergency repair\nfacilities\n9. Anchorage, berth\nand berthing services"], ['(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7212 less\ncabotage transport: as\ndefined below - 3.1)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound for establishment of\njuristic person for the purpose of\noperating a fleet under the national\nflag of Thailand\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence for\nthe supply of international\nmaritime transport services (as\ndefined below - 3.2) except branch\noffice: As indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound\n(b) None other than:\n(i) Shareholders of Thai maritime\ntransport companies with\nownership of Thai flag vessels\nmay be granted exemption or\nreduced rates of income tax\nleviable on dividends paid by\nsuch companies', '1) See Note to the schedule\n(b) See Note to the schedule'], ['', '', '(ii) Exporters or importers of\ngoods shipped from or to\nThailand by Thai flag vessels', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 48 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "4) (a) Ships' crews: Unbound\n(b) Other personnel: As indicated in\nthe horizontal section", 'may be entitled to special\ndeduction of not more than 50\nper cent of the freight values\nor other expenses paid in the\nordinary course of carriage of\nsuch goods from their net\nincome for the purpose of\ncalculation of income tax\n4) (a) Unbound\n(b) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(e) International towing\n(CPC 7214)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound for establishment of\njuristic person for the purpose of\noperating a fleet under the national\nflag of Thailand\n(b) Other forms of commercial\npresence for the supply of\ninternational towing service (as\ndefined below - 3.2) except branch\noffice: As indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) (a) Unbound\n(b) None', ''], ['', "4) (a) Ships' crews: Unbound\n(b) Other personnel: As indicated in\nthe horizontal section", '4) (a) Unbound\n(b) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(f) Supporting Services\nfor maritime transport\n(CPC 745)\nShore reception', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 49 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['facilities (collection of\nwaste/oily water from\nships)', '', '', ''], ["Port captain's services\nattached to specific\nforeign vessels", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Marine surveys and\nclassification societies\nfor the purpose of\nproviding accurate\ndocumentation and\ncertification of vessels', '1) None other than those under regulations\nstipulated by the Harbour Department\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provide in the MA\ncolumn', ''], ['Freight forwarding\nservices', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Maritime cargo\nhandling services (as\ndefined below – 3.5)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Supplying services in the port area under\nthe supervision of government\nauthorities is subject to certain conditions\nset up by relevant laws and regulations of\nsuch authorities.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner may\nbe subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 50 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Maritime agency\nservices (as defined\nbelow – 3.6)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None7\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['C. Air Transport Services\n(d) Aircraft repair and\nmaintenance services\n(CPC 8868)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Services providers must perform their\nservices outside the prescribed apron\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Conditional upon the result of the\nproposal to amend the definition of\n‘foreigner’ in the Foreign Business Act\nB.E. 2542, commercial presence\nspecified in the MA column which is\nowned or controlled by the foreigner\nmay be subject to certain requirements\nstipulated under such law**\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 51 -                                                           
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(e) Supporting services\nfor air transport (CPC\n746)\nSelling and marketing\nof air transport\nservices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound', ''], ['Computer reservation\nsystem services', '1) None other than:\n(1) Service providers must use public\ntelecommunication network under\nnational telecommunication\nauthorities.\n(2) Radio application service is subject\nto frequency availability\n2) None\n3) (1) Distribution through CRS is allowed\nfor airlines offices and one General\nSales Agent office\n(2) Service providers must use Thai\npublic telecommunication network\nunder national telecommunication\nauthorities and have to comply with\nterms and conditions set out in\nThailand’s GATS offer on\nTelecommunication\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 52 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Rail Transport\nServices\n(d) Maintenance and\nrepair of rail transport\nequipment (CPC\n8868)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) (a) As indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n(b) Unbound for civil engineer', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(e) Supporting Services\nfor rail transport\nservices (CPC 743)\nPassenger and\nfreight car cleaning\nservices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['Security services at\nrailway station', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 53 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['F. Road Transport\nServices Other non-\nscheduled passenger\ntransportation\n(b) Freight transportation\nonly for frozen or\nrefrigerated goods,\nbulk liquids or gases\nand containerized\nfreight\n(CPC 71231 to 71233)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) In addition to that indicated in the\nhorizontal section, not less than half of\nthe board of directors of the company\nmust have Thai nationality\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) Rental services of\npassenger cars with\noperator\n(CPC 71222)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) In addition to that indicated in the\nhorizontal section, not less than half of\nthe board of directors of the company\nmust have Thai nationality\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', ''], ['(c) Rental services of\nbuses and coaches\nwith operator\n(CPC 71223)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) In addition to that indicated in the\nhorizontal section, not less than half of\nthe board of directors of the company\nmust have Thai nationality\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 54 -
 Modes of Supply: 1) Cross-border supply         2) Consumption abroad      3) Commercial presence  4) Presence of natural persons 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['H. Services Auxiliary to\nAll Modes of\nTransport\n(b) Storage and\nwarehousing services\n(CPC 742)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) As indicated in the horizontal section', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as provided in the\nhorizontal section', '']]
KA-ATS/SC1/THA - 55 - 
 Reference Paper  NOTE TO THE SCHEDULE   1. Where road, rail, inland waterways and related auxiliary services are not otherwise fully covered in this schedule, a multimodal transport operator shall have the ability to rent or lease trucks, railway carriages or barges, and related equipment, for the purpose of inland forwarding of cargoes, or have access to and use of these forms of multimodal activities on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions for the purpose of carrying out multimodal transport operations.  2. "Reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and conditions" means, for the purpose of multimodal transport operations, the ability of multimodal transport operator to arrange for the conveyance of its merchandise on a timely basis, including priority over other merchandise which enter the port at a later date.  3. Definitions:  3.1 "cabotage":  for the purpose of this schedule, means the transportation or towage of passengers or goods, between a port or place located in Thai waters and another port or place located in Thai waters.  3.2 "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services":  for the purpose of this schedule, means the ability for international maritime transport service suppliers of other members to undertake locally the following:  (a) Marketing and sales of maritime transport services through direct contact with customers, from quotation to invoicing, these services being those operated or offered by the service supplier itself; (b) The procurement, on their own account of any transport and related services, necessary for the supply of the integrated service; (c)  The preparation of documentation concerning transport documents, customer documents, or other document related to the origin and character of the goods transported; (d) Setting up of any business arrangements (including participation in the stock of a company) and the appointment of personnel recruited locally with any locally established shipping agency:  As indicated in the horizontal section.  3.3 "Multimodal transport operator" means the person on whose behalf the bill of lading/multimodal transport document, or any other document evidencing a contract of multimodal carriage of goods, is issued and who is responsible for the carriage of goods pursuant to the contract of carriage.  3.4 "Freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting of organizing and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the procurement of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information.  
 3.5 “Maritime cargo handling services” means activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not including the direct activities of dockers when this workforce is organized independently of the stevedoring or terminal operator companies. The activities include the organization and supervision of: - the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a ship; - the lashing/unlashing of cargo; - the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge 3.6 “Maritime agency services” means activities consisting of representing as an agent, the business interests of one or more shipping lines, for the following purposes: - marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuing of bill of lading of the shipping lines; procurement and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information; - acting on behalf of the shipping lines organizing the call of a ship or taking over cargoes when required.  __________ 
   AGREEMENT ON INVESTMENT UNDER THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT ON COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC COOPERATION AMONG THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE MEMBER COUNTRIES OF THE ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS    The Governments of the Republic of Korea and Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations,  RECALLING the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Framework Agreement) signed in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on the 13th day of December 2005;  FURTHER RECALLING Articles 1.3 and 2.3 of the Framework Agreement, which reflect their commitment to establish the Korea-ASEAN Free Trade Area covering investment;  REAFFIRMING their commitment to create a liberal, facilitative, transparent and competitive investment regime with business-friendly environment among the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries, and to provide protection for investors of the Parties and their investments under the investment regime;  RECOGNISING that mutually enhanced investment opportunities will stimulate the flow of private capital and the economic development among the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries; and  NOTING the different stages of economic development among the ASEAN Member Countries and the need for flexibility to be given to the new ASEAN Member Countries, in particular the need to facilitate their increasing participation in the economic cooperation of the Parties and the expansion of their exports, including, inter alia, through strengthening their domestic capacity, efficiency and competitiveness,  HAVE AGREED as follows:     
Article 1 Definitions  For the purposes of this Agreement:  (a) ASEAN Member Country means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand or the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, individually;  (b) ASEAN Member Countries means Brunei Darussalam, the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Republic of Indonesia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of Singapore, the Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, collectively;  (c) covered investment means, with respect to a Party, an investment in its territory of an investor of any other Party, in existence as of the date of entry into force of this Agreement or established, acquired or expanded thereafter, and has been admitted according to its laws, regulations and national policies, and where applicable, specifically approved in writing by its competent authority;  (d) disputing parties means a disputing investor and a disputing Party;  (e) disputing Party means a Party against which a claim is made under Article 18 (Investment Dispute Settlement between a Party and an Investor of any other Party);  (f) Framework Agreement means the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations;  (g) freely usable currency means any currency designated as such by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) under its Articles of Agreement and any amendments thereto;  (h) GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services, contained in Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement;  (i) Implementing Committee means the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement;                                              
(j) investment means every kind of asset that an investor owns or controls, and that has the characteristics of an investment, such as the commitment of capital or other resources, the expectation of gains or profits or the assumption of risk, and in particular, shall include but is not limited to:  (i) movable and immovable property and any other property rights such as mortgages, liens or pledges;  (ii) shares, stocks and debentures of a juridical person or interests in the property of such juridical person;  (iii) intellectual property rights which are recognised pursuant to laws and regulations of a host Party and international agreements to which the host Party is a party and goodwill;  (iv) business concessions conferred by law or under contract, including concessions to search for, cultivate, extract or exploit natural resources; and  (v) a claim to money or any performance having financial value,   but the term investment does not include claims to money that arise solely from:  (i) commercial contracts for the sale of goods or services by a natural or juridical person in the territory of a Party to natural or juridical person in the territory of any other Party; or  (ii) the extension of credit in connection with a commercial transaction, such as trade financing.  For the purpose of the definition of investment in this Article, returns that are invested should be treated as investments and any alteration of the form in which assets are invested or reinvested shall not affect their character as investments;  (k) investor of a Party means a natural person or a juridical personof a Party that is seeking to make, is making, or has made an investment in the territory of any other Party;  (l) juridical person of a Party means any legal entity duly constituted or                                             
otherwise organized under a Party’s applicable law, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corportion, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, or other association, and its branch;  (m) Korea means the Republic of Korea;  (n) measures means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action, or in any other form affecting investors and/or investments, and include measures taken by:  (i) central, regional or local governments and authorities; and  (ii) non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments and authorities;  (o) natural person of a Party means any natural person possessing the nationality or citizenship of or right of permanent residence in that Party in accordance with its laws and regulations;  (p) new ASEAN Member Countries means the Kingdom of Cambodia, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Union of Myanmar and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam;  (q) non-disputing Party means the Party of the disputing investor;  (r) Parties means Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries, collectively;  (s) Party means Korea or an ASEAN Member Country;  (t) returns means amounts yielded by or derived from an investment particularly, though not exclusively, any profits, interests, capital gains, dividends, royalties or fees;  (u) WTO means the World Trade Organisation; and  (v) WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation, done at Marrakesh on the 15th day of April 1994 and the other agreements negotiated thereunder.                                              
Article 2 Scope and Coverage  1. This Agreement shall apply to measures adopted or maintained by a Party relating to:  (a) investors of any other Party; and  (b) covered investments.  2. This Agreement does not apply to:  (a) government procurement;  (b) subsidies or grants provided by a Party;  (c) any taxation measure, except under Article 10 (Transfers) and Article 12 (Expropriation and Compensation);  (d) claims arising out of events which occurred, or claims which had been raised, prior to the entry into force of this Agreement;  (e) services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority such as law enforcement, correctional services, income security or insurance, social security or insurance, social welfare, public education, public training, health, and child care, provided that such services are supplied neither on a commercial basis, nor in competition with one or more service suppliers; or  (f) measures adopted or maintained by a Party to the extent that they are covered by the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement.  3. Notwithstanding paragraph 2(f) of this Article, Article 5 (General Treatment of Investment), Article 10 (Transfer), Article 12 (Expropriation and Compensation), Article 13 (Compensation for Losses), Article 14 (Subrogation), and Article 18 (Investment Dispute Settlement between a Party and an Investor of any other Party) of this Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to any measure affecting the supply of service by a service supplier of a Party through commercial presence in the territory of any other Party pursuant to the provisions of the Agreement on Trade in Services under the Framework Agreement, only to the extent that they relate to a covered investment.                                                 
Article 3 National Treatment  Each Party shall accord to investors of any other Party, and to covered investments of investors of any other Party, treatment no less favourable than that it accords through its measures, in like circumstances, to its own investors and investments with respect to admission, establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation and sale or other disposition of investments in its territory.   Article 4 Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment  1. Each Party shall accord to investors of any other Party treatment no less favourable that it accords, in like circumstances, to investors of any other Party or a non-Party with respect to admission, establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation and sale or other disposition of investments in its territory.  2. Each Party shall accord to covered investments treatment no less favourable than it accords, in like circumstances, to investments in its territory of investors of any other Party or a non-Party with respect to the admission, establishment, acquisition, expansion, management, conduct, operation and sale or other disposition of investments.  3. The treatment, as set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2, shall not include:  (a) any preferential treatment accorded to investors and/or their investments under any existing bilateral, regional and/or international agreements or any forms of economic or regional cooperation with any non-Party; and  (b) any existing or future preferential treatment accorded to investors and/or their investments in any agreement or arrangement between or among ASEAN Member Countries.  4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, if a Party accords more favourable treatment to investors of any other Party or a non-Party or their investments by virtue of any future agreements or arrangements to which the Party is a party, it shall not be obliged to accord such treatment to investors of any other Party or their investments. However, upon request from any other Party, it shall accord adequate opportunity to negotiate the benefits granted therein.                                                 
Article 5 General Treatment of Investment  1. Each Party shall accord to covered investments of investors of any other Party fair and equitable treatment and full protection and security.  2. For greater certainty:  (a) fair and equitable treatment requires each Party not to deny justice in any legal or administrative proceedings;  (b) full protection and security requires each Party to take such measures as may be reasonably necessary to ensure the protection and security of the covered investments; and  (c) the concepts of “fair and equitable treatment” and “full protection and security” do not require treatment in addition to or beyond that which is provided under the customary international law and do not create additional substantive rights.  3. A determination that there has been a breach of another provision of this Agreement, or of a separate international agreement, does not establish that there has been a breach of this Article.   Article 6 Performance Requirements  The provisions of the WTO Agreement on Trade-related Investments Measures (TRIMs), which are not specifically mentioned in or modified by this Agreement, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires.   Article 7 Senior Management and Boards of Directors  1. A Party shall not require a juridical person of that Party that is a covered investment appoint to senior management positions natural persons of any particular nationality.  2. A Party may require that a majority of the board of directors, or any committee thereof, of a juridical person of that Party that is a covered investment, be of a particular                                             
nationality, or resident in the territory of the Party, provided that the requirement does not materially impair the ability of the investor to exercise control over its investment.   Article 8 Transparency  1. Each Party shall promptly publish, or otherwise make publicly available, its laws, regulations, administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general application as well as international agreements which pertain to or affect any matter covered by this Agreement.  2. Each Party shall promptly make publicly available any new laws or any changes to existing laws, regulations or administrative guidelines which significantly affect investments or commitments of a Party under this Agreement.  3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be construed so as to oblige a Party to disclose confidential information, the disclosure of which would impede law enforcement or otherwise be contrary to the public interest or which would prejudice privacy or legitimate commercial interests.  4. Each Party shall establish or designate an enquiry point where, upon request of any natural person, juridical person or any other Party, all information relating to the measures required to be published or made available under paragraphs 1 and 2 may be promptly obtained.  5. Each Party shall notify all the other Parties through the Implementing Committee at least once annually of any future investment related agreement or arrangement which grants any preferential treatment and to which it is a party.  6. All notifications and communications pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be in the English language.   Article 9 Reservations  1. Article 3 (National Treatment), Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), and in the case of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic Article 6 (Performance Requirements), shall not apply to:  (a) any existing non-conforming measure that is maintained by a Party at:  (i) the central level of government as set out by the Party in its Schedule of Reservations in List 1;                                             
(ii) the regional level of government as set out by the Party in its Schedule of Reservations in List 1; or  (iii) the local level of government.  (b) the continuation or prompt renewal of any non-conforming measure referred to in subparagraph (a); or  (c) an amendment to any non-conforming measure referred to in subparagraph (a) to the extent that the amendment does not decrease the conformity of the measure, as it existed at the date of entry into force of the Party’s Schedule of Reservations in List 1, with Article 3 (National Treatment), Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), and in the case of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic Article 6 (Performance Requirements).  2. Article 3 (National Treatment), Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), and in the case of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic Article 6 (Performance Requirements), shall not apply to any reservation for measures that a Party adopts or maintains with respect to sectors, sub-sectors or activities, as set out in List 2.  3. Other than pursuant to any procedures for the modification of Schedules of Reservations, a Party may not, under any measure adopted after the date of entry into force of this Agreement and covered by List 2, require an investor of the other Party, by reason of its nationality, to sell or otherwise dispose of an investment existing at the time the measure becomes effective.  4. Procedures for the modification of the Schedules of Reservations referred to in paragraph 3 are to be pursuant to Article 27 (Work Programme).  5. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to derogate from rights and obligations under international agreements in respect of protection of intellectual property rights to which the Parties are party, including the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) and other treaties concluded under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organization.   Article 10 Transfers  1. Each Party shall allow transfers relating to a covered investment to be made freely and without delay into and out of its territory in any freely usable currency at the prevailing market rate of exchange in its territory on the date of transfer. Such transfers shall include:  (a) the initial capital and additional amounts to maintain or increase the investment; 
(b) profits, dividends, interest, capital gains, royalty payments, licence fees, technical assistance fees, management fees and other current income accruing from any covered investment;  (c) proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all or any part of the investment;  (d) payments made under a contract including payments made pursuant to a loan agreement;  (e) payments made in accordance with Article 12 (Expropriation and Compensation) and Article 13 (Compensation for Losses); and  (f) payments arising out of the settlement of a dispute under this Agreement.  2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a Party may delay or prevent a transfer through the equitable, non-discriminatory and good faith application of its laws and regulations relating to:  (a) bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of the rights of creditors;  (b) issuing, trading or dealing in securities, futures, options or derivatives;  (c) criminal or penal offences;  (d) social security, public retirement or compulsory savings scheme;  (e) ensuring compliance with the judgments in judicial or administrative proceedings;  (f) severance entitlement of employees;  (g) financial reporting or record keeping of transfers when necessary to assist law enforcement or financial regulatory authorities; and  (h) taxation.  3. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties as members of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) under the Articles of Agreement of the Fund, including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles of Agreement, provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on any capital transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments regarding such transactions, except under Article 11 (Temporary Safeguard Measures) or at the request of the Fund.   Article 11 Temporary Safeguard Measures  1. A Party may adopt or maintain measures not conforming with its obligations 
under Article 3 (National Treatment) relating to cross-border capital transactions or Article 10 (Transfers) in the event of serious balance of payments and external financial difficulties or under threat thereof.  2. A Party may adopt or maintain measures not conforming with its obligations under Article 10 (Transfers) in cases where, in exceptional circumstances, movements of capital cause or threaten to cause serious economic or financial disturbance or serious difficulties for the operation of monetary or exchange rate policies in the Party concerned.  3. The measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall:  (a) be consistent with the Articles of Agreement of the IMF, as may be amended;  (b) avoid unnecessary damage to the commercial, economic and financial interests of any other Party;  (c) not exceed those necessary to deal with the circumstances described in paragraph 1 or 2;  (d) be temporary and phased out progressively as the situation specified in paragraph 1 improves; and  (e) be applied such that any one of the other Parties is treated no less favourably than any other Party or non-Party.  4. Measures adopted or maintained pursuant to paragraph 2 shall, in addition to paragraphs 3(a) to (e):  (a) be phased out within one year or when conditions would no longer justify their institution or maintenance;  (b) be applied on a national treatment basis; and  (c) avoid unnecessary damage to investors and covered investments of any other Party.   5. Any restrictions adopted or maintained under paragraphs 1 and 2 or any changes therein, shall be promptly notified to the other Parties.                                               
Article 12 Expropriation and Compensation  1. A Party shall not nationalise or expropriate covered investments of an investor of any other Party, either directly or through measures equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation (referred hereto as “expropriation”), except:  (a) for public purpose  (b) in accordance with due process of law;  (c) on a non-discriminatory basis; and  (d) upon payment of prompt, adequate and effective compensation.  2. For the purpose of paragraph 1(d), compensation shall:  (a) be equivalent to the fair market value of the expropriated investment at the time when the expropriation was publicly announced, or when the expropriation occurred, whichever is applicable;  (b) not reflect any change in value occurring because the intended expropriation had become known earlier;  (c) be settled and paid without undue delay; and  (d) be effectively realisable and freely transferable between the territories of the Parties.  3. The compensation referred to in paragraph 1(d) shall include appropriate interest. The compensation, including any accrued interest, shall be payable either in the currency of the expropriating Party, or if requested by the investor, in a freely usable currency.  4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, in the case of the Republic of Singapore and the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, any measure of expropriation relating to land shall be as defined in their respective domestic laws, regulations and any amendment thereto and shall be, for the purposes of and upon payment of compensation, in accordance with the aforesaid laws and regulations.                                              
5. This Article does not apply to the issuance of compulsory licences granted in relation to intellectual property rights under the TRIPS Agreement.   Article 13 Compensation for Losses A Party shall accord to investors of any other Party whose covered investment suffered losses due to war or other armed conflict, state of national emergency, civil strife or other similar events in its territory, treatment no less favourable than that accorded, in like circumstances, to its own investors or investors of a non-Party whichever is more favourable, relating to restitution, indemnification, compensation or any other forms of settlement.   Article 14 Subrogation  1. Where a Party or an agency authorised by that Party has granted a contract of insurance or any form of financial guarantee against non-commercial risks with regard to a covered investment by one of its investors in the territory of any other Party and when payment has been made under this contract or financial guarantee by the former Party or the agency authorised by it, the latter Party shall recognise the rights of the former Party or the agency authorised by the Party by virtue of the principle of subrogation to the rights of the investor.  2. Where a Party or the agency authorised by the Party has made a payment to its investor and has taken over rights and claims of the investor, that investor shall not, unless authorised to act on behalf of the Party or the agency authorised by the Party, making the payment, pursue those rights and claims against the other Party.   Article 15 Special Formalities and Treatment of Information  1. Nothing in Article 3 (National Treatment) shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining a measure that prescribes special formalities in connection with the establishment of investments by investors of any other Party, such as the requirement that investments be legally constituted under the laws or regulations of the Party and compliance with registration requirements, provided that such formalities do not materially impair the rights afforded by a Party to investors of any other Party and investments of investors of any other Party pursuant to this Agreement.                                             
 2. Notwithstanding Article 3 (National Treatment) or Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), a Party may require an investor of any other Party, or its investment in its territory, to provide routine information concerning that investment solely for information or statistical purposes. The Party shall protect any confidential information which has been provided from any disclosure that would prejudice legitimate commercial interests of particular juridical persons, public or private or the competitive position of the investor or the investment. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from otherwise obtaining or disclosing information in connection with the equitable and good faith application of its law.   Article 16 Special and Differential Treatment for the new ASEAN Member Countries  In order to increase benefit for the new ASEAN Member Countries in participating in this Agreement, and in accordance with the objectives set out in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Framework Agreement, a special and differential treatment shall be accorded to these Countries, to the extent possible, through:  (a) access to information on the investment policies of other Parties, business information, relevant databases and contact point for investment promotion;  (b) technical assistance to strengthen their capacity in relation to investment policies and promotion including in areas such as human resource development;  (c) commitments in areas of interest to the new ASEAN Member Countries; and  (d) recognising that commitments by each new ASEAN Member Country can be made in line with its respective development policies and strategies.   Article 17 Denial of Benefits  1. A Party may deny the benefits of this Agreement to an investor of any other Party that is a juridical person of such other Party and to investments of such investor if the juridical person has no substantial business activities in the territory of the Party under whose law it is constituted or organised, and investors of a non-Party, or of the denying Party, own or control the juridical person.  2. The denying Party shall, to the extent practicable, notify the other Parties concerned before denying the benefits. If the denying Party provides such notice, it shall consult with the other Parties concerned at the request of such other Parties. 
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, and subject to prior notification to and consultation with the relevant Party, in the case of the Kingdom of Thailand, the Kingdom of Thailand may deny the benefits of this Agreement relating to the admission, establishment, acquisition and expansion of investments to an investor of any other Party that is a juridical person of such other Party and to investments of such an investor where the Kingdom of Thailand establishes that the juridical person is owned or controlled by natural persons or juridical persons of a non-Party.  4. In the case of the Kingdom of Thailand, a juridical person is:  (a) owned by investors of a Party if more than 50 per cent of the equity interest in it is beneficially owned by such investors; and  (b) controlled by investors of a Party if such investors have the power to name a majority of its directors or otherwise to legally direct its actions.  5. Following notification, and without prejudice to paragraph 1, in the case of the Republic of the Philippines, the Republic of the Philippines may deny the benefits of this Agreement to an investor of any other Party and to investments of that investor, where it establishes that such investor has made an investment in breach of the provisions of Commonwealth Act No. 108 (An Act to Punish Acts of Evasion of Laws on the Nationalization of Certain Rights, Franchises or Privileges) as amended by Presidential Decree No. 715, otherwise known as “the Anti-Dummy Law”, as may be amended.   Article 18 Investment Dispute Settlement  between a Party and an Investor of any other Party  1. This Article shall apply to investment disputes between a Party and an investor of any other Party concerning an alleged breach of Article 3 (National Treatment), Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 5 (General Treatment of Investment), Article 7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors),  Article 10 (Transfers), Article 12 (Expropriation and Compensation) and Article 13 (Compensation for Losses) of this Agreement which causes loss or damage by reason of, or arising out of, that breach to:  (a) the investor in relation to its covered investments; or  (b) the covered investment that has been made by that investor,  relating to the management, conduct, operation or sale or other disposition of a covered investment.  2. A natural person possessing the nationality or citizenship of a Party shall not pursue a claim against that Party under this Agreement. 
3. An investment may not make a claim under this Article.  4. In the event of an investment dispute arising under this Article, the disputing parties shall as far as possible resolve the dispute through consultation and negotiation, a request of which shall be made in writing, with a view towards reaching an amicable settlement.  5. Any such dispute which has not been resolved within a period of six months from the date of written request for consultations may be submitted to the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party provided that such courts or tribunals have jurisdictions over such claims or to arbitration. In the latter event, the investor has the choice among any of the following:  (a) the ICSID Convention and the ICSID Rules of Procedure for Arbitration Proceedings, provided that both the disputing Party and the non-disputing Party are parties to the ICSID Convention;  (b) the ICSID Additional Facility Rules, provided that either the disputing Party or the non-disputing Party is a party to the ICSID Convention;  (c) the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules; or  (d) any other arbitration institution or any other arbitration rules, if the disputing parties so agree.  6. Once the investor has submitted the dispute to the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party or any of the arbitration mechanisms provided for in paragraph 5, the choice of forum shall be final.  7. The submission of a dispute to arbitration under paragraph 5 shall be conditional upon: 
[[''], ['(a) the submission of the dispute to such arbitration taking place within three'], ['years of the time at which the disputing investor became aware, or'], ['should reasonably have become aware, of a breach of an obligation under'], ['this Agreement and, of the loss or damage incurred by the disputing'], ['investor in relation to its covered investment or by the covered'], ['investment; and'], ['']]
(b) the disputing investor providing written notice, which shall be delivered at least 90 days before the claim to arbitration is submitted, to the disputing Party of its intent to submit the dispute to such arbitration and which:                                             
(i) nominates one of the fora in paragraph 5(a), (b), (c), or (d) as the forum for dispute settlement; and  (ii) briefly summarises the alleged breach of the disputing Party under this Agreement (including the articles alleged to have been breached) and the loss or damage allegedly caused to the investor in relation to its covered investment or caused to the covered investment.  8. Where an investment dispute relate to a measure which may be a taxation measure, the disputing Party and the non-disputing Party, including representatives of their tax administrations, shall hold consultations to determine whether the measure in question is a taxation measure.  9. Where a disputing investor claims that the disputing Party has breached Article 12 (Expropriation and Compensation) by the adoption or enforcement of a taxation measure, the disputing Party and the non-disputing Party shall, upon request from the disputing Party, hold consultations with a view to determining whether the taxation measure in question has an effect equivalent to expropriation or nationalisation.  10. Any tribunal that may be established under this Article shall accord serious consideration to the decision of the disputing Party and the non-disputing Party under paragraphs 8 and 9.  11. If the disputing Party and the non-disputing Party fail either to initiate such consultations referred to in paragraphs 8 and 9, or to make such joint decisions, within the period of 180 days from the date of the receipt of request for consultation referred to in paragraph 4, the disputing investor shall not be prevented from submitting its claim to arbitration in accordance with this Article.  12. A Party shall not prevent the disputing investor from seeking interim measures of protection, not involving the payment of damages or resolution of the substance of the matter in dispute before the courts or administrative tribunals of the disputing Party, prior to the institution of proceedings before any of the dispute settlement fora referred to in paragraph 5, for the preservation of its rights and interests.  13. A Party shall not give diplomatic protection, or bring an international claim, in respect of a dispute which one of its investors and any other Party shall have consented to submit or have submitted to arbitration under this Article, unless such other Party has failed to abide by and comply with the award rendered in such dispute. Diplomatic protection, for the purposes of this paragraph, shall not include informal diplomatic exchanges for the sole purpose of facilitating a settlement of the dispute.                                              
14. An award made by a tribunal shall be final and binding upon the disputing parties. An award shall have no binding force except between the disputing parties and in respect of the particular case.   Article 19 Disputes between the Parties  Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, any dispute concerning the interpretation, implementation or application of this Agreement shall be resolved through the procedures and mechanism as set out in the Agreement on Dispute Settlement Mechanism under the Framework Agreement.   Article 20 General Exceptions  1. Subject to the requirement that such measures are not applied in a manner which would constitute a means of arbitrary or unjustifiable discrimination between the Parties or their investors where like conditions prevail, or a disguised restriction on investors or investments made by investors of any other Party, nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prevent the adoption or enforcement by any Party of measures:  (a) necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order;  (b) necessary to protect human, animal or plant life or health;  (c) necessary to secure compliance with laws or regulations which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement including those relating to:  (i) the prevention of deceptive and fraudulent practices to deal with the effects of a default on a contract;  (ii) the protection of the privacy of individuals in relation to the processing and dissemination of personal data and the protection of confidentiality of individual records and accounts; and  (iii) safety;  (d) inconsistent with Article 3 (National Treatment), provided that the difference in treatment is aimed at ensuring the equitable or effective                                             is mutandis. 
imposition or collection of direct taxes in respect of investments or investors of any other Party;  (e) imposed for the protection of national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value; or  (f) relating to the conservation of exhaustible natural resources if such measures are made effective in conjunction with restrictions on domestic production or consumption.  2. Insofar as measures affecting the supply of financial services are concerned, paragraph 2 (Domestic Regulation) of the Annex on Financial Services of the GATS shall be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.   Article 21  Security Exceptions  1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed:  (a) to require a Party to furnish any information, the disclosure of which it considers contrary to its essential security interests; or  (b) to prevent a Party from taking any actions which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests:  (i) relating to the traffic in arms, ammunition and implements of war and to such traffic in other goods and materials or relating to the supply of services as carried on, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of supplying or provisioning a military establishment;  (ii) taken in time of war or other emergency in domestic or international relations;  (iii) relating to fissionable and fusionable materials or the materials from which they are derived;  (iv) taken to protect critical public infrastructures, including communication, power and water infrastructures, from deliberate attempts intended to disable or degrade such infrastructures; or  (c) to prevent a Party from taking any action in pursuance of its obligations under the United Nations Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security.  2. The Implementing Committee shall be informed to the fullest extent possible of measures taken under paragraphs 1(b) and (c) and of their termination.  
Article 22 Taxation  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the rights and obligations of any Party under any tax agreement to which the Party is a party. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any such agreement, that agreement shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.   Article 23 Relation to Other Agreements  1. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to derogate from any right or obligation of a Party under international agreements to which the Parties are party.  2. If the international obligations existing at present or established hereafter between the Parties in addition to this Agreement, result in a position entitling investors of any other Party and investments by investors of any other Party to treatment more favourable than is provided for by this Agreement, such position shall not be affected by this Agreement.   Article 24 Institutional Arrangements  The institutions as provided for in Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement shall oversee, supervise, coordinate and review, as appropriate, the implementation of this Agreement.   Article 25 Consultations  The Parties agree to consult each other at the request of any Party on any matter relating to investments covered by this Agreement, or otherwise affecting the implementation of this Agreement.   Article 26 Review and Future Liberalisation  1. The institutions as provided for in Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement shall review the implementation of this Agreement.  2. The Parties will, through future negotiations, further deepen liberalisation with a view to reaching the reduction or elimination of the remaining restrictions scheduled in conformity with Article 9 (Reservations), on a mutually advantageous basis and ensuring an overall balance of rights and obligations. 
Article 27 Work Programme  1. The Parties shall enter into discussions on:  (a) Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment);  (b) TRIMs-plus elements to Article 6 (Performance Requirements);  (c) Schedules of Reservations to this Agreement;  (d) Procedures for modification of Schedules of Reservations that will apply at the date of entry into force of the Schedules of Reservations to this Agreement;  (e) Annex on Expropriation and Compensation;  (f) Annex on Taxation and Expropriation; and  (g) Article 18 (Investment Dispute Settlement between a Party and an Investor of any other Party).  2. The Parties shall conclude the discussions referred to in paragraph 1, within five years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement unless the Parties otherwise agree. These discussions shall be overseen by the Implementing Committee established under Article 5.3 of the Framework Agreement.  3. Schedules of Reservations to this Agreement referred to in paragraph 1 shall enter into force on a date agreed to by the Parties.  4. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Article 3 (National Treatment), Article 4 (Most-Favoured-Nation Treatment), Article 7 (Senior Management and Boards of Directors), Article 9 (Reservations), and in the case of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic Article 6 (Performance Requirements), shall not apply until the Parties’ Schedules of Reservations to this Agreement have entered into force in accordance with paragraph 3.   Article 28 Annexes and Future Instruments  This Agreement shall include:  (a) the Annexes and the contents therein which shall form an integral part of this Agreement; and  (b) all future legal instruments agreed pursuant to this Agreement.  
Article 29 Amendments  The provisions of this Agreement may be modified through amendments mutually agreed upon in writing by the Parties.   Article 30 Depositary  For the ASEAN Member Countries, this Agreement shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of ASEAN, who shall promptly furnish a certified copy thereof, to each ASEAN Member Country.   Article 31 Entry into Force  1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which Korea and at least one ASEAN Member Country have notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of their internal procedures.  2. A Party shall, upon the completion of its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement, notify all the Parties in writing.  3. Where a Party is unable to complete its internal procedures for the entry into force of this Agreement by the date as set out in paragraph 1, this Agreement shall come into force for that Party, 30 days after the date on which that Party has notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures. The Party concerned, however, shall be bound by the same terms and conditions of this Agreement, including any further commitments that may have been undertaken by the other Parties under this Agreement by the time of such notification, as if it had notified all the other Parties in writing of the completion of its internal procedures before the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto, have signed this Agreement on Investment under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  DONE at Jeju-do, Republic of Korea, this 2 day of June 2009, in duplicate copies in the English language.     
For the Government of the Republic of Korea:         KIM JONG-HOON Minister for Trade     For the Government of Brunei Darussalam:           LIM JOCK SENG Second Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade   For the Royal Government of Cambodia:           CHAM PRASIDH Senior Minister and Minister of Commerce     For the Government of the Republic of Indonesia:           MARI ELKA PANGESTU Minister of Trade     For the Government of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic:           NAM VIYAKETH Minister of Industry and Commerce         
For the Government of Malaysia:          DATUK MUSTAPA MOHAMED Minister of International Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Union of Myanmar:           U SOE THA Minister for National Planning and Economic Development     For the Government of the Republic of the Philippines:           PETER B. FAVILA Secretary of Trade and Industry     For the Government of the Republic of Singapore:           LIM HNG KIANG Minister for Trade and Industry          
     For the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand:          PORNTIVA NAKASAI Minister of Commerce       For the Government of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam:           VU HUY HOANG Minister of Industry and Trade    
   ANNEX 1  Approval in Writing    Where specific approval in writing is required for covered investments by a Party’s domestic laws, regulations and national policies, that Party shall:  (a) inform all the other Parties through the ASEAN Secretariat of the contact details of its competent authority responsible for granting such approval;  (b) in the case of an incomplete application, identify and notify the applicant in writing within one month from the date of receipt of such application of all the additional information that is required;  (c) inform the applicant in writing that the investment has been specifically approved or denied within four months from the date of receipt of complete application by the competent authority; and  (d) in the case an application is denied, inform the applicant in writing of the reasons for such denial. The applicant shall have the opportunity of submitting, at that applicant’s discretion, a new application.  
