  PREAMBLE   The Government of the Republic of Korea (“Korea”) and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia (“Indonesia”), hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Parties” and individually as a “Party”:  RECOGNIZING their longstanding and strong friendship and the need to strengthen their close economic relations and their shared regional interests and ties;  CONVINCED that a free trade area will create an expanded and secure market for goods and services in their territories and a conducive environment for investment, thus contributing to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade; 
[['', None, None, None, None], ['DESIRING to promote economic growth and create new employment', None, None, None, None], ['opportunities;', None, None, None, None], ['', None, None, None, None], ['SEEKING to reduce or eliminate the barriers to trade and investment between', None, None, None, None], ['them, and to facilitate cooperation and utilisation of the greater business', None, None, None, None], ['opportunities provided by this Agreement;', None, None, None, None], ['', None, None, None, None], ['PROMOTING a predictable, transparent, and consistent business', None, None, None, None], ['environment that will assist enterprises in planning effectively and using', None, None, None, None], ['resources efficiently;', None, None, None, None], ['', None, None, None, None], ['RESOLVING to strengthen their economic, trade, and investment relations to', None, None, None, None], ['contribute to the objectives of sustainable development and to promote trade', None, None, None, None], ['and investment under this Agreement;', None, None, None, None], ['', None, None, None, None], ['BUILDING on their respective rights and obligations under', None, None, None, 'the Marrakesh'], ['Agreement Establishing the World Trade', 'Organization', '', 'and other multilateral,', None], ['regional, and bilateral agreements to which both Parties are party; and', None, None, None, None]]
 REAFFIRMING their desire to build upon their commitments under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other relevant agreements pursuant to the Framework Agreement;  HAVE AGREED as follows:  
   CHAPTER 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS   Article 1.1: General Definitions  For purposes of this Agreement, unless otherwise specified,   Agreement means this Agreement;  Agreement on Agriculture means the Agreement on Agriculture, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;   Anti-Dumping Agreement means the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;   Korea-ASEAN FTA means the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other relevant agreements stipulated in paragraph 1 of Article 1.4 of the Framework Agreement;  customs authority means the authority that, in accordance with the laws and regulations of each Party, is responsible for the administration and enforcement of its customs laws and regulations:   (a)  for Korea, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, or the   Korea Customs Service; and   (b) for Indonesia, the Directorate General of Customs and   Excise of the Ministry of Finance;  or their respective successors;  customs duty means any customs or import duty or charge of any kind, including any form of surtax or surcharge, imposed in connection with the importation of a good, but does not include any:  (a) charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994, in respect of like, directly competitive, or substitutable goods of a Party, or in respect of goods from which the imported good has been manufactured or produced in whole or in part;   
   (b) duty imposed pursuant to a Party’s laws and regulations consistent with Chapter Five (Trade Remedies);   (c) fee or other charge in connection with importation commensurate with the cost of services rendered;  (d) premiums offered or collected on an imported good arising out of any tendering system in respect of the administration of quantitative import restrictions or tariff rate quotas; or  (e) duty imposed pursuant to any agricultural safeguard measure taken under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture;  customs laws and regulations means such laws and regulations administered and enforced by the customs authorities of the Parties concerning the importation, exportation, transit or transshipment of goods, as they relate to customs duties, charges, and other taxes, or to prohibitions, restrictions, and other similar controls with respect to the movement of controlled items across the boundary of the customs territory of each Party;  customs procedures means the treatment applied by the customs authority of a Party to goods and means of transport that are subject to customs control.  Customs Valuation Agreement means the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;   days means calendar days including weekends and holidays;  enterprise means any entity duly constituted or otherwise organized under the  applicable laws and regulations, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately or governmentally owned or controlled, including any corporation, trust, partnership, sole proprietorship, joint venture, association, or similar organization;   existing means in effect on the date of entry into force of this Agreement;  GATS means the General Agreement on Trade in Services, in Annex 1B to the WTO Agreement;  GATT 1994 means the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, including its notes and supplementary provisions, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;  goods means any merchandise, product, article, or material;     
   Harmonized System (HS) means the nomenclature of the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System defined in the International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, including all legal notes thereto, as in force and as amended from time to time;  Joint Committee means the Joint Committee established under Article 12.1(Establishment of Joint Committee);  juridical person means any legal entity duly constituted or otherwise organized under the applicable laws and regulations, whether for profit or otherwise, and whether privately-owned or governmentally-owned, including any corporation, trust, partnership, joint venture, sole proprietorship or association;  measure means any measure by a Party, whether in the form of a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action or any other form;  measures adopted or maintained by a Party means measures adopted or maintained by:  (a) central or local governments and authorities; and  (b) non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central or local governments and authorities;  national means:   (a) for Korea, a Korean national within the meaning of the Nationality Act, as amended; and  (b) for Indonesia, an Indonesian national as defined in the Indonesia Law No. 12/2006, as amended from time to time, or any successor legislation;  originating goods means products or materials that qualify as originating under the Chapter Three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures);   person means a natural or juridical person or an enterprise;  preferential tariff treatment means tariff concessions granted to originating goods as reflected by the tariff rates applicable under this Agreement;  Safeguards Agreement means the Agreement on Safeguards, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;  
   SCM Agreement means the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement;   territory means:  (a) for Korea, the land, maritime, and airspace under its sovereignty, and those maritime areas, including the seabed and subsoil adjacent to and beyond the outer limit of the territorial seas over which it may exercise sovereign rights or jurisdiction in accordance with international law and its domestic law; and  (b) for Indonesia, the land territories, internal waters, archipelagic waters, territorial sea, including the seabed and subsoil thereof, and airspace over such territories and waters, as well as the continental shelf and exclusive economic zone, over which Indonesia has sovereignty, sovereign rights or jurisdiction as defined in its laws, and in accordance with international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, done at Montego Bay, December 10, 1982;  TRIPS Agreement means the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, in Annex 1C to the WTO Agreement; UNCITRAL means the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law;  WTO means the World Trade Organization; and  WTO Agreement means the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization, done on 15 April 1994.    Article 1.2: Establishment of a Free Trade Area  Consistent with Article XXIV of GATT 1994 and Article V of GATS, the Parties hereby establish a free trade area, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.   Article 1.3: Objectives  The objectives of this Agreement are to:  
    (a) achieve the substantial liberalization of trade in goods   between the Parties, in conformity with Article XXIV of   GATT 1994;   (b) achieve the substantial liberalization of trade in services   between the Parties, in conformity with Article V of    GATS;  (c) achieve the substantial increase of investment opportunities in the territories of the Parties;   (d) promote fair competition in their economies, particularly   as it relates to economic relations between the Parties;   (e) establish a framework for cooperation and capacity   building with a view to promoting the effective and   efficient implementation and utilization of this Agreement,   thereby fostering competitiveness and sustainable   development; and   (f) develop international trade in such a way as to contribute to the objective of sustainable development as it is integrated and reflected in trade relations between the Parties.   Article 1.4: Relation to Other Agreements  1. The Parties reaffirm their rights and obligations under existing agreements to which both Parties are party, including the WTO Agreement and the Korea-ASEAN FTA.  2. For greater certainty, this Agreement shall not be construed to derogate from any international legal obligation between the Parties that provides for more favorable treatment of goods, services, investments, or persons than that provided for under this Agreement.  3. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, in the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and any other agreement to which both Parties are party, the Parties shall, upon request, consult with each other with a view to finding a mutually satisfactory solution.  
CHAPTER 2 NATIONAL TREATMENT AND MARKET ACCESS FOR GOODS   Article 2.1: Scope and Coverage  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Chapter applies to trade in goods between the Parties.     Section A: Definitions   Article 2.2: Definitions  For purposes of this Chapter:  consular transactions means requirements that goods of a Party intended for export to the territory of the other Party must first be submitted to the supervision of the consul of the importing Party in the territory of the exporting Party for purposes of obtaining consular invoices or consular visas for commercial invoices, certificates of origin, manifests, shippers’ export declarations, or any other customs documentation required on or in connection with importation;  duty-free means free of customs duty; and  import licensing means an administrative procedure requiring the submission of an application or other documentation (other than that generally required for customs clearance purposes) to the relevant administrative body as a prior condition for importation into the territory of the importing Party.     Section B: National Treatment   Article 2.3: National Treatment  Each Party shall accord national treatment to the goods of the other Party in accordance with Article III of GATT 1994. To this end, the provisions of Article III of GATT 1994 shall be incorporated into and form an integral part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.     Section C: Tariff Reduction or Elimination   
 Article 2.4: Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties  1. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, neither Party shall increase any existing customs duty, or adopt any new customs duty, on an originating good.    2. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each Party shall gradually reduce or eliminate its customs duties on originating goods in accordance with its Schedule in Annex 2-A.    3. On the request of either Party, the Parties shall consult to consider accelerating the reduction or elimination of customs duties set out in their Schedules in Annex 2-A. An agreement by the Parties to accelerate the reduction or elimination of a customs duty on an originating good shall supersede any duty rate or staging category determined pursuant to their Schedules in Annex 2-A for that good when approved by each Party in accordance with its applicable legal procedures.    4. A Party may unilaterally accelerate the reduction or elimination of customs duties set out in its Schedule in Annex 2-A at any time if it so wishes. The Party shall notify the other Party through a diplomatic note immediately after completion of the internal procedures required for the amendments to enter into force.    5. In accordance with the WTO Agreement, originating goods of the other Party shall be eligible, at the time of importation, for the most-favored-nation (hereinafter referred to as “MFN”) applied rate of customs duty for those goods in a Party, where that rate is lower than the rate of customs duty provided for in that Party’s Schedule in Annex 2-A. Each Party shall make publicly available any amendments to the MFN rate on the internet.    6. For greater certainty, a Party may:  (a) raise a customs duty to the level established in its Schedule in Annex 2-A following a unilateral reduction or elimination; or  (b) maintain or increase a customs duty as authorized by the Dispute Settlement Body of the WTO.     Article 2.5: Customs Valuation  For purposes of determining the customs value of goods traded between the Parties, the provisions of Article VII of GATT 1994, and the provisions of Part I and the Interpretative Notes of Annex I of the Customs 
Valuation Agreement shall apply, mutatis mutandis.     Section D: Special Regimes   Article 2.6: Temporary Admission of Goods  1. Each Party shall allow, as provided for in its laws and regulations, goods to be brought into its customs territory conditionally relieved, totally or partially, from payment of customs duties and taxes if such goods are brought into its customs territory for a specific purpose, are intended for re-exportation within a specific period, and have not undergone any change except normal depreciation and wastage due to the use made of them.    2. Each Party shall, at the request of the person concerned and for reasons its customs authority considers valid, extend the time limit for temporary admission provided for in paragraph 1 beyond the period initially fixed.  3. Neither Party shall condition the temporary admission of a good provided for in paragraph 1, other than to require that the good:  (a) be used solely by or under the personal supervision of a national or resident of the other Party in the exercise of the business activity, trade, profession, or sport of that person;  (b) not be sold or leased while in its territory;  (c) be accompanied by a security or guarantee in an amount no greater than the customs duties, taxes, fees, and charges that would otherwise be owed on entry or final importation, releasable on the exportation of the good;  (d) be capable of identification when imported and exported;  (e) be exported on the departure of the person referred to in subparagraph (a), or within such other period related to the purpose of the temporary admission as the Party may establish, unless extended;  (f) be admitted in no greater quantity than is reasonable for its intended use; and  (g) be otherwise admissible into the Party’s territory under its laws and regulations.   
 4. If any condition that a Party imposes under paragraph 3 has not been fulfilled, the Party may apply the customs duty and any other charge that would normally be owed on the good in addition to any other charges or penalties provided for under its laws and regulations.    5. Each Party shall permit a good temporarily admitted under this Article to be re-exported through a customs port other than that through which it was admitted.     Article 2.7: Duty-Free Entry of Samples of No Commercial Value  Each Party shall grant duty-free entry to samples of no commercial value, imported from the territory of the other Party subject to its laws and regulations, regardless of their origin.     Section E: Non-Tariff Measures   Article 2.8: Application of Non-Tariff Measures  1. A Party shall not adopt or maintain any non-tariff measure on the importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation of any good destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance with its WTO rights and obligations or this Agreement.    2. Each Party shall ensure the transparency of its non-tariff measures permitted in paragraph 1 and shall ensure that any such measures are not prepared, adopted or applied with a view to, or with the effect of, creating unnecessary obstacles to trade between the Parties.   Article 2.9: General Elimination of Quantitative Restrictions  1. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, neither Party shall adopt or maintain any prohibition or restriction other than duties, taxes or other charges, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, on the importation of any good of the other Party or on the exportation of any good destined for the territory of the other Party, except in accordance with its rights and obligations under the relevant provisions of the WTO Agreement. To this end, Article XI of GATT 1994 is incorporated into and made part of this Agreement, mutatis mutandis.    2. Where a Party adopts an export prohibition or restriction in 
accordance with subparagraph 2(a) of Article XI of GATT 1994, the Party shall, upon request:  (a) inform the other Party of such prohibition or restriction and its reasons together with its nature and expected duration, or publish such prohibition or restriction; and  (b) provide the other Party with a reasonable opportunity for consultation with respect to matters related to such prohibition or restriction.     Article 2.10: Technical Consultations on Non-Tariff Measures  1. A Party may request technical consultations with the other Party (hereinafter referred to as the “requested Party”) on a measure the Party considers to be adversely affecting its trade. The request shall be in writing and shall clearly identify the measure and the concerns as to how the measure adversely affects trade between the Party requesting technical consultations (hereinafter referred to as the “requesting Party”) and the requested Party.    2. Where the measures are covered by another Chapter, its Chapter-specific consultation mechanism shall be used, unless otherwise agreed between the Parties.    3. Except as provided in paragraph 2, the requested Party shall respond and enter into technical consultations within 60 days after the receipt of the written request referred to in paragraph 1, unless otherwise determined by the Parties, with a view to reaching a mutually satisfactory solution within 180 days of the request. Technical consultations may be conducted via any means mutually agreed by the Parties.    4. If the requesting Party considers that the matter is urgent or involves perishable goods, it may request that technical consultations take place within a shorter time frame than that provided for under paragraph 3. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent a Party from applying sanitary and phytosanitary (hereinafter referred to as “SPS”) measures.    5. The technical consultations under this Article shall be without prejudice to the rights and obligations pertaining to dispute settlement proceedings under Chapter Ten (Dispute Settlement) and the WTO Agreement.     Article 2.11: Import Licensing  1. Each Party shall ensure that all automatic and non-automatic import 
licensing procedures are implemented in a transparent and predictable manner, and applied in accordance with the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement (hereinafter referred to as the “Import Licensing Agreement”). Neither Party shall adopt or maintain a measure that is inconsistent with the Import Licensing Agreement.    2. Promptly after entry into force of this Agreement, each Party shall notify the other Party of any existing import licensing procedures. The notification shall include the information specified in Article 5.2 of the Import Licensing Agreement. A Party shall be deemed to be in compliance with this paragraph if:   (a) it has notified that procedure to the WTO Committee on Import Licensing provided for in Article 4 of the Import Licensing Agreement together with the information specified in Article 5.2 of the Import Licensing Agreement; and  (b) in the most recent annual submission due before the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party to the WTO Committee on Import Licensing in response to the annual questionnaire on import licensing procedures described in Article 7.3 of the Import Licensing Agreement, it has provided, with respect to that procedure, the information requested in that questionnaire.  3. Before applying any new or modified import licensing procedure, a Party shall publish the new procedure or modification on an official government internet site. To the extent possible, the Party shall do so at least 21 days before the new procedure or modification takes effect.    4. The notification required under paragraph 2 is without prejudice to whether the import licensing procedure is consistent with this Agreement.    5. No application shall be refused for minor documentation errors which do not alter the basic data contained therein. Minor documentation errors may include, but are not limited to, formatting errors (for instance, the width of a margin or the font used) and errors with spelling which are obviously made without fraudulent intent or gross negligence.    6. Each Party shall, to the extent possible, answer within 60 days all reasonable enquiries from the other Party with regard to the criteria employed by its respective licensing authorities in granting or denying import licenses. The importing Party shall publish sufficient information for the other Party and traders to know the basis for granting or allocating import licenses.    7. If a Party denies an import license application with respect to a good 
of the other Party, it shall, on the request of the applicant and within a reasonable period after receiving the request provide the applicant with an explanation of the reason for the denial.     Article 2.12: Fees and Formalities Connected with Importation and Exportation  1. Each Party shall ensure, in accordance with Article VIII:1 of GATT 1994 that all fees and charges of whatever character (other than import or export duties, charges equivalent to an internal tax or other internal charge applied consistently with Article III:2 of GATT 1994, and antidumping and countervailing duties) imposed on or in connection with importation or exportation are limited in amount to the approximate cost of services rendered and do not represent an indirect protection to domestic goods or a taxation on imports or exports for fiscal purposes.    2. Each Party shall promptly publish details of the fees and charges that it imposes on or in connection with importation or exportation and shall make such information available on the internet.    3. Neither Party shall require consular transactions, including related fees and charges, in connection with the importation of a good of the other Party. Neither Party shall require that any customs documentation supplied in connection with the importation of any good of the other Party be endorsed, certified or otherwise sighted or approved by the importing Party’s overseas representatives, or persons or entities with authority to act on the importing Party’s behalf, nor impose any related fees or charges.     Article 2.13: Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  1. The Parties reaffirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement taking into account relevant decisions of the WTO Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures and international standards, guidelines and recommendations.    2. The Parties shall encourage technical cooperation and communication in the field of SPS issues subject to the availability of appropriate resources.    3. Chapter Ten (Dispute Settlement) shall not be applied to any SPS matter arising under this section.     
Article 2.14: Technical Barriers to Trade  1. The Parties reaffirm their existing rights and obligations with respect to each other under the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, in Annex 1A to the WTO Agreement.    2. The Parties shall strengthen their cooperation in the fields of standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures with a view to increasing the mutual understanding of their respective systems and facilitating access to their respective markets. The Parties will seek to identify, develop, and promote trade facilitating initiatives regarding standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures that are appropriate for particular issues or sectors as agreed upon by the Parties on the mutually determined terms and conditions.     Section F: Institutional Provisions   Article 2.15: Committee on Trade in Goods  1. For purposes of the effective implementation and operation of this Chapter and Chapter Five (Trade Remedies), the function of the Committee on Trade in Goods (hereinafter referred to in this Article as the “Committee”) established in accordance with Article 12.4 (Committees and Subsidiary Bodies) shall include:  (a) reviewing and monitoring the implementation and operation of this Chapter and Chapter Five (Trade Remedies) and, if appropriate, making a report and recommendation;  (b) promoting trade in goods between the Parties, including through consultations on accelerating reduction or elimination of customs duties under this Agreement and other issues as appropriate;  (c) addressing barriers to trade in goods between the Parties, especially those related to the application of non-tariff measures, and, if appropriate, referring such matters to the Joint Committee for its consideration;  (d) addressing any issues related to measures to update each Party’s Schedule of tariff concessions to reflect amendments of the Harmonized System, including the transposition of the Parties’ Schedules of tariff concessions and exchanging transposed Schedules of tariff concessions and correlation 
tables in a timely manner; and  (e) discussing any matter arising under this Chapter and Chapter Five (Trade Remedies) as agreed.    2. The Committee shall meet on the request of a Party or the Joint Committee to consider matters arising under this Chapter and Chapter Five (Trade Remedies).     
CHAPTER 3 RULES OF ORIGIN AND ORIGIN PROCEDURES   Section A: Rules of Origin   Article 3.1: Definitions  For purposes of this Chapter:  CIF means the value of the good imported, and includes the cost of freight and insurance up to the port or place of entry into the country of importation. The valuation shall be made in accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and Customs Valuation Agreement;  exporter means a natural or juridical person located in an exporting Party from where a good is exported by such a person;  FOB means the free-on-board value of a good, inclusive of the cost of transport from the producer to the port or site of final shipment abroad. The valuation shall be made in accordance with Article VII of GATT 1994 and Customs Valuation Agreement;  Generally Accepted Accounting Principles means the recognized consensus or substantial authoritative support in the territory of a Party with respect to the recording of revenues, expenses, costs, assets, and liabilities, the disclosure of information, and the preparation of financial statement. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles may encompass broad guidelines for general application, as well as detailed standards, practices and procedures;  identical and interchangeable goods or materials means goods or materials being of the same kind and commercial quality, possessing the same technical and physical characteristics, and which once they are incorporated into the finished good cannot be distinguished from one another for origin purposes by virtue of any markings, etc.;  importer means a natural or juridical person located in the territory of a Party from where a good is imported by such a person;  materials shall include ingredients, raw materials, parts, components, sub-assemblies used in the production process;  non-originating goods means products or materials that do not qualify as originating under this Chapter;  
packing materials and containers for transportation means the goods used to protect a good during its transportation, different from those materials or containers used for its retail sale;  producer means a natural or juridical person who carries out production in the territory of a Party;  Product Specific Rules means the rules that specify that the materials have undergone a change in tariff classification or a specific manufacturing or processing operation, or satisfy a regional value content/qualifying value content or a combination of any of these criteria; and  production means methods of obtaining a good including growing, mining, harvesting, raising, breeding, extracting, gathering, collecting, capturing, fishing, trapping, hunting, manufacturing, processing or assembling a good.    Article 3.2:Origin Criteria          1.  For purposes of this Agreement, a good imported into the territory of a Party shall be deemed to be originating and eligible for preferential tariff treatment if it conforms to the origin requirements under any one of the following:   (a)  a good which is wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of the exporting Party as set out and defined in Article 3.3;   (b)  a good which is produced entirely in the territory of the exporting Party exclusively from originating materials; or    (c)  a good which is produced entirely in the territory of the exporting Party using non-originating materials, provided the good satisfies the applicable requirements set out in Annex 3-A.  2.  Except as provided for in Article 3.6, the conditions for acquiring originating status set out in this Chapter must be fulfilled without interruption in the territory of the exporting Party.                                                   
Article 3.3:Wholly Obtained or Produced Goods  Within the meaning of Article 3.2.1(a), the following shall be considered to be wholly obtained or produced entirely in the territory of a Party:  (a) plants and plant products grown and harvested there;  (b) live animals born and raised there;  (c) goods obtained from live animals referred to in subparagraph (b);  (d) goods obtained by hunting or trapping within the land territory, or fishing or aquaculture conducted within the internal waters or within the territorial sea of a Party;  (e) minerals and other naturally occurring substances, not included in subparagraphs (a) through (d), extracted or taken from the territory of a Party;  (f) goods of sea-fishing and other marine life taken from the sea, seabed, or subsoil outside the territorial sea of a Party by vessels registered with a Party and flying its flag, provided that Party has rights to exploit such sea, seabed, or subsoil in accordance with the international law;  (g) goods produced or made on board factory ships registered with a Party and entitled to fly its flag, exclusively from products referred to in subparagraph (f);  (h) goods taken by a Party or a person of a Party from the seabed or subsoil outside the territory of a Party, provided that Party has rights to exploit such seabed or subsoil in accordance with the international law;  (i) goods taken from outer space provided that they are obtained by the Party or a person of that Party;  (j) articles collected from there which can no longer perform their original purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and are fit only for the disposal or recovery of parts or raw materials, or for recycling purposes;                                                   
(k) waste and scrap derived from:  (i) production there; or  (ii) used goods collected there, provided that such goods are fit only for the recovery of raw materials; and  (l) goods obtained or produced in the territory of the Party solely from goods referred to in subparagraphs (a) through (k).   Article 3.4: Calculation of Regional/Qualifying Value Content  For purpose of Article 3.2.1(c), the Parties shall provide that the importer, exporter, or producer may calculate regional/qualifying value content based on one or the other of the following methods:   (a)  Build-Up Method         VOM RVC or QVC = ----------------------- x 100%         FOB  VOM means value of originating materials, which includes the value of originating materials, direct labour cost, direct overhead cost, transportation cost and profit.   (b) Build-Down Method      FOB - VNM RVC or QVC= ------------------------ x 100%     FOB   VNM means value of non-originating materials, which shall be: (i) the CIF value at the time of importation of the materials, parts or goods; or (ii) the earliest ascertained price paid for the materials, parts or goods of undetermined origin in the territory of the Party where the working or processing has taken place.     
Article 3.5: Treatment for Certain Goods   1.  Treatment for Certain Goods shall be governed by Rule 6 of Annex 3 to the Agreement on Trade in Goods under the Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Economic Cooperation among the Governments of the Republic of Korea and the Member Countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and the Exchange of Notes between the Republic of Korea and the ASEAN Member Countries regarding the Implementation and Monitoring of Rule 6 dated 27 February 2009 (hereinafter referred to as “Exchange of Notes”), which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.  2.  The list of goods subject to treatment under paragraph 1 shall be the list of goods attached to the Exchange of Notes referred to in paragraph 1. The Parties shall revise or amend the aforementioned list of goods through a further exchange of notes within one year from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed.   Article 3.6: Accumulation  Unless otherwise provided for in this Chapter, a good originating in the territory of a Party, which is used in the territory of the other Party as material for a finished good eligible for preferential tariff treatment, shall be considered to be originating in the territory of the latter Party where working or processing of the finished good has taken place.   Article 3.7: Non-Qualifying Operations  1.  Notwithstanding any provisions in this Chapter, a good shall not be considered to be originating in the territory of a Party if the following operations are undertaken exclusively by itself or in combination in the territory of that Party:   (a)  preserving operations to ensure that the good remains in good condition during transport and storage;   (b) changes of packaging, breaking-up and assembly of  packages;   (c)  simplewashing, cleaning, removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint                                                   
   or other coverings;   (d) ironing or pressing of textiles;   (e)  simple painting and polishing operations;   (f)  husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing and glazing of     cereals and rice;   (g) operations to colour sugar or form sugar lumps;   (h) simple peeling, stoning, or un-shelling;   (i)  sharpening, simple grinding, or simple cutting;   (j)  sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching;   (k) simple placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes,     fixing on cards or boards and all other simple packaging     operations;   (l)  affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like     distinguishing signs on products or their packaging;   (m) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds;   (n) simple assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete     article or disassembly of products into parts;    (o) simple testing or calibrations; or   (p) slaughtering of animals.  2.  A good originating in the territory of a Party shall retain its initial originating status, when exported from the other Party, where operations undertaken have not gone beyond those referred to in paragraph 1.                                                                                                                                   
Article 3.8: Intermediate Goods  1.  When an originating good is used in the subsequent production of another good, no account shall be taken of the non-originating materials contained in the originating good for purposes of determining the originating status of the subsequently produced good.  2.  When a non-originating good is used in the subsequent production of another good:  (a)   for purposes of calculating the value of the non-originating materials of the subsequently produced good, an account shall be taken only of the non-originating materials contained in the non-originating good; and  (b)  for purposes of calculating the value of the originating materials of the subsequently produced good, an account shall be taken of the originating materials contained in the non-originating good.   Article 3.9: Direct Consignment  1.  Preferential tariff treatment shall be applied to a good satisfying the requirements of this Chapter and which is transported directly between the territories of the exporting Party and the importing Party.  2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a good of which transport involves transit through one or more intermediate third countries, other than the territories of the exporting Party and the importing Party, shall be considered to be consigned directly, provided that:  (a) the transit is justified for geographical reason or by consideration related exclusively to transport requirement;   (b)  the good has not entered into trade or consumption there; and  (c) the good has not undergone any operation other than unloading and reloading or any operation required to keep it in good condition.  3.  For purposes of implementing paragraph 2, where transportation is effected through the territory of one or more intermediate countries, other than                                                  
that of the both Parties, the following shall be produced to the relevant government authorities of the importing Party:   (a)  a through Bill of Lading issued in the territory of the exporting Party, which includes combination of any transport documents covering the entire transport route of a good from the exporting Party to the importing Party; or   (b)  other relevant supporting documents, if any, as evidence that the requirements of paragraph 2 are being complied with.   Article 3.10: De Minimis   1.  A good that does not satisfy an applicable change in tariff classification requirement set out in Annex 3-A shall be considered as originating if:   (a)  for a good, other than that provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, the value of all non-originating materials used in its production that do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the FOB value of the good;   (b)  for a good provided for in Chapters 50 through 63 of the Harmonized System, the weight of all non-originating materials used in its production that do not undergo the required change in tariff classification does not exceed 10 percent of the total weight of the good;   and the good specified in subparagraphs (a) and (b) meets all other applicable criteria set forth in this Chapter for qualifying as an originating good.  2.  The value of non-originating materials referred to in paragraph 1 shall, however, be included in the value of non-originating materials for any applicable RVC/QVC requirement for the good.   
Article 3.11: Treatment of Packaging and Packing Materials  1.    (a)  If a good is subject to the RVC/QVC criterion, the value of    the packaging and packing materials for retail sale shall be taken into account in its determination of origin, where the packaging and packing materials are considered to be forming a whole with the good.   (b) Where subparagraph (a) is not applicable, the packaging and packing materials for retail sale, if classified together with the packaged good, shall be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good fulfil criterion corresponding to a change in tariff classification of the said good.  2.  Packing materials and containers for transportation of a good shall not be taken into account in determining the origin of the good.    Article 3.12:Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  1.  The Parties shall provide that a good’s standard accessories, spare parts, or tools delivered with the good shall be considered originating goods if the good is an originating good and shall be disregarded in determining whether all the non-originating materials used in the production of the good satisfy the applicable change in tariff classification requirement set out in Annex 3-A, provided that:   (a)  the accessories, spare parts, or tools are classified with and not invoiced separately from the good; and   (b) the quantities and value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools are customary for the good.  2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, if a good is subject to a RVC/QVC requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts, or tools described in paragraph 1 shall be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials as the case may be, in calculating the RVC/QVC of the good.   
Article 3.13:Neutral Elements  In order to determine whether a good originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its production and not incorporated into the good:  (a) fuel and energy;  (b) tools, dies and moulds;  (c) spare parts and materials used in the maintenance of equipment and buildings;  (d) lubricants, greases, compounding materials and other materials used in production or used to operate equipment and buildings;  (e) gloves, glasses, footwear, clothing, safety equipment and supplies;  (f) equipment, devices and supplies used for testing or inspecting the good; and  (g) any other goods that are not incorporated into the good but of which use in the production of the good can reasonably be demonstrated to be a part of that production.   Article 3.14:Identical and Interchangeable Goods or Materials  1.  Whether identical and interchangeable goods or materials are originating can be determined by:    (a) physical segregation of each good or material; or   (b)   generally accepted accounting principles of inventory   management practiced in the territory of the exporting Party.  2.  Once a decision has been taken on the inventory management method, that method shall be used throughout the fiscal year.       
Section B: Origin Procedures    Article 3.15: Proof of Origin  1. Goods originating in a Party shall, on importation into the other Party, benefit from preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement on the basis of a Proof of Origin.  2.  Any of the following shall be considered as a Proof of Origin:   (a)  a Certificate of Origin issued by an issuing body referred to    in Article 3.16;   (b) an Origin Declaration made out by an approved exporter;    and     (c) an Origin Declaration by an exporter or producer.  3. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating goods within the meaning of this Chapter, in the cases specified in Article 3.19 may benefit from preferential tariff treatment without any of the documents referred to in paragraph 2.  4. Both Parties shall implement the Origin Declaration by exporter or producer referred to in paragraph 2(c) within 10 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement.  5. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, a Party may elect to seek a longer extension period, up to a maximum of 10 years in which to implement the provision.  6. The Parties may implement the Proof of Origin referred to in paragraph 2(b) and 2(c) after both Parties conclude negotiations on regulations and formats through the Committee on Customs and Trade Facilitation referred to in Article 4.12 (Committee on Customs and Trade Facilitation) within two years from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed by the Parties.   7. Paragraph 6 shall apply only after the exporting Party has notified the importing Party, that it shall implement this paragraph.  8. Each Party shall provide that a Proof of Origin remains valid for one year from the date on which it is issued or made out.   
Article 3.16: Certificate of Origin  1.  A Certificate of Origin shall be issued by issuing bodies of the exporting Party in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, on application by the producer or exporter or, under his responsibility, by his authorized representative.  2.  For purposes of this Agreement, a Certificate of Origin is any of:   (a)  a certificate of origin in paper format; or   (b)  an electronic certificate of origin.  3.  A Certificate of Origin in paper format shall:    (a)   be on A4 size paper and be in the attached Form set out in Annex 3-B-1. For multiple items declaration, the Parties may use the attached Form set out in Annex 3-B-2 as additional pages to the Certificate of Origin;   (b) comprise one original and two copies. The original shall be forwarded by the producer or exporter to the importer for submission to the customs authority of the importing Party. The duplicate shall be retained by the issuing body of the exporting Party. The triplicate shall be retained by the producer or exporter;    (c)  be completed in English and may cover one or more goods under one consignment; and  (d)  be in a printed format or such other medium including electronic format.    4.  An Electronic Certificate of Origin means a Certificate of Origin data that is transmitted electronically between Korea and Indonesia through Electronic Origin Data Exchange System referred to in Article 3.25.                                                   
5. A Certificate of Origin shall be issued prior to or at the time of shipment, or within seven calendar daysafter the date of shipment. In exceptional cases where a Certificate of Origin has not been issued prior to or at the time of shipment, or within seven calendar days after shipment due to involuntary errors, omissions, or other valid causes, a Certificate of Origin may be issued retroactively but within one year from the date of shipment, bearing the words “ISSUED RETROACTIVELY.”   6.  The exporter applying for the issuance of a Certificate of Origin shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the issuing body of the exporting Party issuing the Certificate of Origin, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned including statements from the suppliers or producers in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations as well as the fulfillment of the other requirements of this Chapter.  7.  In the event of theft, loss, or destruction of a Certificate of Origin, the producer or exporter or his authorized representatives may apply to the issuing bodies of the exporting Party for issuing a certified true copy, provided that the original copy previously issued has been verified not to be used. This copy shall bear the words “CERTIFIED TRUE COPY” in box 4 in Annex 3-B-1. This copy shall bear the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin in box 12 in Annex 3-B-1. The certified true copy of a Certificate of Origin shall be issued within one year from the date of issuance of the original Certificate of Origin.    8.  Neither erasures nor superimpositions shall be allowed on a Certificate of Origin. Any alteration shall be made by striking out the erroneous materials and making any addition required. Such alterations shall be certified by the issuing body. Unused spaces shall be crossed out to prevent any subsequent addition.  Alternatively, a new Certificate of Origin may be issued to replace the erroneous Certificate of Origin.  The issuing body shall specify the date of issuance of the originally issued Certificate of Origin in the new Certificate of Origin.                                                       
Article 3.17: Issuing Body  1.  Each Party shall maintain an updated register of the names and seals of its issuing bodies.  2.  Each Party shall notify the other Party of the names and specimen signatures and specimen of official seals of its issuing bodies through the contact point. Any changes in the said list shall be promptly provided in the same manner.   3.  Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a Party shall not be required to provide the specimen signatures of its issuing body to the other Party, provided that it has established a secured website containing key information of a Certificate of Origin issued by the exporting Party, namely reference number, HS code, description of the goods, quantity, date of issuance, and name of the exporter.  4.  The issuing bodies shall, to the best of their competence and ability, carry out proper examination, in accordance with the domestic laws and regulations of the Party, upon each application for a Certificate of Origin to ensure that:     (a)  the Certificate of Origin is duly completed and signed by the    authorized signatory;   (b)  the origin of the good is in conformity with this Chapter;   (c)  other statements in the Certificate of Origin correspond to supporting documentary evidence submitted;   (d) the description, quantity, and weight of the good, number and type of packages, as specified, conform to the good to be exported; and   (e)  the Certificates of Origin issued are numbered consecutively.   Article 3.18: Claims for Preferential Tariff Treatment  1.  Each Party shall provide that an importer may at the time of importation, make a claim for preferential tariff treatment based on a Proof of Origin.  2.  Each Party may require, in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, that an importer who claims preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into its territory:  
(a) make written statement in the customs declaration that the good is an originating good;     (b)  identify the applicable tariff rate;   (c)  have in its possession at the time the declaration referred to in subparagraph (a) is made, a written or electronic Proof of Origin as described in Article 3.15;     (d)   provide a Proof of Origin to the customs authority of the importing Party; and    (e) when the importer has reason to believe that the declaration in subparagraph (a) is based on inaccurate information, correct the importation document and pay any customs duty owing in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations.  3.  Each Party shall provide that a Proof of Origin shall be valid for one year after the date it was issued.  4. Each Party, subject to its laws and regulations, shall provide that where a good would have qualified as an originating good when it was imported into the territory of that Party, the importer of the good may, within a period specified by the laws and regulations of the importing Party, after the date on which the good was imported, apply for a refund of any excess duties, deposit, or guarantee paid as a result of the good not having been accorded preferential tariff treatment, on presentation of the following to the customs authority of the importing Party:    (a)  a Proof of Origin and other evidence that the good qualifies as an originating good; and   (b)  such other documentation in relation to the importation as the customs authority may require to satisfactorily evidence the tariff preference claimed.  5. Notwithstanding paragraph 4, each Party may require, in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations, that the importer notify to the customs authority of the importing Party its intention to claim preferential tariff treatment at the time of importation.     
Article 3.19: Waiver of Proof of Origin  1.  Each Party shall provide that a Proof of Origin shall not be required where:   (a) the customs value of the importation does not exceed US$200 FOB or the equivalent amount in the currency of the importing Party, or such higher amount as may be established by the importing Party, unless the importing Party considers the importation to be part of a series of importations carried out or planned for purposes of evading compliance with the Party’s laws and regulations governing claims for preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement; or  (b) it is a good for which the importing Party does not require the importer to present a Proof of Origin.  2.  Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the importing Party may require the importer to submit a Proof of Origin and such other documentation related to the origin of the good where there is doubt as to the veracity of the originating status of the good.    Article 3.20: Record Keeping Requirements  1.  Each Party shall provide that an exporter or producer of the good covered by a Proof of Origin shall maintain, for a minimum of three years from the date the Proof of Origin was issued, all records necessary to demonstrate that the good covered by the Proof of Origin was an originating good, including records concerning:   (a)  the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for, the exported good;    (b)  the purchase of, cost of, value of, and payment for all materials, including neutral elements, used in the production of the exported good;   (c) the production of the good in the form in which it was exported; and     (d) such other documentation as required by the laws and regulations of the exporting Party.    
2.  Each Party shall provide that an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment for a good imported into the territory of the Party based on a Proof of Origin shall maintain, for a minimum of three years from the date of importation of the good, documentation related to importation.   3.  Each Party shall provide that the issuing bodies as referred to in Article 3.17 shall maintain, for a minimum of three years from the date that a Certificate of Origin was issued, a copy of the Certificate of Origin as well as the supporting information required for certification.   4.  Each Party shall provide that an exporter, producer, importer, or issuing bodies may choose to maintain the records specified in paragraphs 1 through 3 in any medium that allows for prompt retrieval, including, but not limited to, digital, electronic, optical, magnetic, or written form.     Article 3.21: Discrepancies and Formal Errors  1.  The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in a Proof of Origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party for purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the goods shall not ipso facto render the Proof of Origin null and void if it is duly established that such documents do correspond to the goods imported.  2.  Obvious formal errors such as typing errors on a Proof of Origin should not cause this document to be rejected if these errors are not such as to create doubts concerning the correctness of the statements made in this document.  3.  For multiple items declared under the same Proof of Origin, a problem encountered with one of the items listed shall not affect or delay the granting of preferential tariff treatment and customs clearance of the remaining items listed in that Proof of Origin.   Article 3.22: Non-Party Invoice  The importing Party shall not reject a Proof of Origin only for the reason that the invoice was issued in the territory of a non-Party.      
Article 3.23: Verification  1.  The importing Party may request the issuing body of the exporting Party to conduct a retroactive check at random or when the importing Party has reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the good in question or of certain parts thereof, subject to the following procedures:   (a)  the request of the importing Party for a retroactive check shall be accompanied with the Proof of Origin concerned and shall specify the reasons and any additional information suggesting that the particulars given on the said Proof of Origin may be inaccurate, unless the retroactive check is requested on a random basis;   (b) the issuing body of the exporting Party receiving a request for retroactive check shall respond to the request promptly and reply the result within two months after receipt of the request;   (c)  If the customs authority of the importing Party considers necessary, it may require additional information relating to the origin of the good. If additional information is requested by the customs authority of the importing Party, the issuing body of the exporting Party shall provide the information requested in a period not exceeding four months after the date of receipt of the request; and    (d)  the customs authority of the importing Party may suspend provision of preferential tariff treatment while awaiting the result of verification. However, it may release the good to the importer subject to any administrative measures deemed necessary, provided that they are not held to be subject to import prohibition or restriction and there is no suspicion of fraud.  2.  The customs authority of the importing Party may request an importer for information or documents relating to the origin of an imported good in accordance with its domestic laws and regulations before requesting the retroactive check pursuant to paragraph 1.                                                   
3.  If the importing Party is not satisfied with the outcome of the retroactive check, it may, under exceptional circumstances, request verification visits to the exporting Party.  4.   Prior to conducting a verification visit pursuant to paragraph 3:   (a)  an importing Party shall deliver a written notification of its intention to conduct the verification visit simultaneously to:    (i)  the producer or exporter whose premises are to be   visited;    (ii)  the issuing body of the Party in the territory of    which the verification visit is to occur;    (iii)   the customs authority of the Party in the territory of    which the verification visit is to occur; and    (iv)  the importer of the good subject to the verification   visit;   (b) the written notification mentioned in subparagraph (a) shall be as comprehensive as possible and shall include, among others:     (i) the name of the customs authority issuing the     notification;    (ii)  the name of the producer or exporter whose     premises are to be visited;  (iii)    the proposed date of the verification visit;    (iv)    the coverage of the proposed verification visit,  including reference to the good subject to the verification; and   (v) the names and designation of the officials performing the verification visit;   (c)  an importing Party shall obtain the written consent of the     producer or exporter whose premises are to be visited;   (d) when a written consent from the producer or exporter is not obtained within 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification pursuant to subparagraph (a), the notifying Party 
may deny preferential tariff treatment to the good referred to in the said Proof of Origin that would have been subject to the verification visit; and   (e)  the issuing body receiving the notification may postpone the proposed verification visit and notify the importing Party of such intention within 15 days from the date of receipt of the notification. Notwithstanding any postponement, any verification visit shall be carried out within 60 days from the date of such receipt, or a longer period as the Parties may agree.  5.  The Party conducting the verification visit shall provide the producer or exporter, whose good is subject to such verification, and the relevant issuing body with a written determination of whether or not the good subject to such verification qualifies as an originating good.   6.   Any suspended preferential tariff treatment shall be reinstated upon the written determination referred to in paragraph 5 that the good qualifies as an originating good.  7.  The producer or exporter shall be allowed 30 days from the date of receipt of the written determination to provide in writing comments or additional information regarding the eligibility of the good for preferential tariff treatment.  If the good is still found to be non-originating, the final written determination shall be communicated to the relevant issuing body within 30 days from the date of receipt of the comments or the additional information from the producer or exporter.  8.  The verification visit process, including the actual visit and the determination under paragraph 5 whether the good subject to such verification is originating or not, shall be carried out and its results shall be communicated to the relevant issuing body within a maximum period of six months from the first day the initial verification visit was conducted.  While the process of verification is being undertaken, subparagraph 1(d) shall be applied.   Article 3.24: Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment  1.  The customs authority of the importing Party may deny preferential tariff treatment without verification of a Proof of Origin, in accordance with its laws and regulations, as the Proof of Origin can be considered as inapplicable when:   (a)  the requirements on direct consignment of Article 3.9 have not been fulfilled; 
   (b)  the Proof of Origin is produced subsequently for goods that were initially imported fraudulently;    (c)  the Proof of Origin has been issued in a non-Party to this Agreement;   (d)  the importer fails to submit the Proof of Origin to the customs authorities of the importing Party within the period specified in the domestic laws and regulations of the importing Party; or    (e)  such other matters arise as the Parties may agree.  2.  During verification procedures, the customs authority of the importing Party may deny preferential tariff treatment when the issuing body of the exporting Party, exporter, or producer fail to comply with Article 3.20 or Article 3.23.    Article 3.25: Electronic Origin Data Exchange System  The Parties may develop an electronic system for origin information exchange to ensure the effective and efficient implementation of this Chapter.   Article 3.26: Transitional Provisions for Goods in Transit and Storage  A Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to an originating good that, on the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party:   (a)  was being transported to that Party in accordance with the Direct Consignment provisions in Article 3.9; or   (b)   had not been imported into the territory of that Party;  if a valid claim under Article 3.18 for preferential tariff treatment is made within 180 days from the date of entry into force of this Agreement for that Party.   
 ANNEX 3-B-1 Certificate of Origin  ORIGINAL (Duplicate/Triplicate) 
[['1. Exporter’s name and address:', None, None, 'Reference No.:\nKOREA-INDONESIA\nCOMPREHENSIVE\nECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT\nCERTIFICATE OF ORIGIN\n(Combined Declaration and Certificate)\nFORM KI-CEPA\nIssued in ___________ (Country)\n(see Overleaf Notes)', None, None, None], ['2. Importer’s name and address:', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['3. Means of transport and route (as far as\nknown):\nDeparture Date:\nVessel/Flight/Train/Vehicle No.:\nPort of loading:\nPort of discharge:', None, None, '4. Remarks:', None, None, None], ['5. Item\nnumber', '6. Description of\ngoods (including\nnumber\nand type of\npackage,\nand quantity)', '7. HS code\n(Six digit\ncode)', '8. Origin\ncriterion', None, '9. Gross weight or\nother measurements\nand FOB Value\n(only when\nRVC/QVC criterion\nis used)', '10. Number and\ndate of invoice'], ['', '', '', '', None, '', ''], ['11. Declaration by the exporter:\nThe undersigned hereby declares that the above\ndetails and statement are correct, that all the goods\nwere produced in\n……………………………………..\n(Country)\nand that they comply with the origin requirements\nspecified in the Korea-Indonesia Comprehensive\nEconomic Partnership Agreement for the goods\nexported to\n……………………………………..\n(Importing Country)\n……………………………………..\n(Place and date,\nsignature of authorized signatory)', None, None, None, '12. Certification:\nIt is hereby certified that the information herein is correct\nand that the goods described comply with the origin\nrequirements specified in the Korea-Indonesia\nComprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement.\n……………………………………..\n(Place and date, signature and stamp of\nissuing body)', None, None], ['Condition', 'Remark'], ['A good is invoiced by a non-Party operator', '“NON-PARTY INVOICING” and indicating the\nfull legal name and country of the operator that\nissues the invoice'], ['A Certificate of Origin is issued retroactively', '“ISSUED RETROACTIVELY”'], ['A Certified true copy is issued', '“CERTIFIED TRUE COPY”'], ['Origin Criterion', 'Insert in box 8'], ['(a) Goods wholly obtained or produced entirely\nin the territory of the exporting Party', '“WO”'], ['(b) Goods produced entirely in the territory of\nthe exporting party exclusively from\nmaterials whose origin conforms to Chapter\n3 (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures).', '“PE”'], ['Origin Criterion', 'Insert in box 8'], ['(c) Goods satisfying the Product Specific Rules\n- Change in Tariff Classification\n- Regional / Qualifying Value Content\n- Change in Tariff Classification or Regional /\nQualifying Value Content\n- Others', '“CC” / “CTH” / “CTSH”\n“RVC/QVC40”\n“CC” / “CTH” / “CTSH” or “RVC/QVC40”\n“CC ex” / “CTH ex” / “CTSH ex” or\n“RVC/QVC40”'], ['(d) Goods satisfying Article 3.5 (Treatment for\nCertain Goods)', '“Article 3.5”']]
 ANNEX 3-B-2 Certificate of Origin (Additional Pages)  ORIGINAL (Duplicate/Triplicate)  Reference No. 
[['5. Item\nnumber', '6. Description of\ngoods (including\nnumber and type\nof package,\nand quantity)', '7. HS code\n(Six digit\ncode)', '8. Origin\ncriterion', None, '9. Gross weight or\nother measurements\nand FOB Value\n(only when\nRVC/QVC criterion\nis used)', '10. Number and\ndate of invoice'], ['', '', '', '', None, '', ''], ['11. Declaration by the exporter:\nThe undersigned hereby declares that the above\ndetails and statement are correct, that all the goods\nwere produced in\n……………………………………..\n(Country)\nand that they comply with the origin requirements\nspecified in the KICEPA for the goods exported to\n……………………………………..\n(Importing Country)\n……………………………………..\nPlace and date,\nsignature of authorized signatory', None, None, None, '12. Certification:\nIt is hereby certified that the information herein is\ncorrect and that the goods described comply with the\norigin requirements specified in the Korea-Indonesia\nCEPA.\n……………………………………..\nPlace and date,\nsignature and stamp of issuing body', None, None]]
CHAPTER 4 CUSTOMS PROCEDURES AND TRADE FACILITATION   Article 4.1: Publication   1. Each Party shall publish, including on the internet, laws, regulations, and general administrative procedures related to import and export.  2. Each Party shall designate or maintain one or more inquiry points to address reasonable inquiries by interested persons concerning customs matters and make available on the internet information concerning the procedures for making such inquiries.  3. To the extent possible, each Party shall provide opportunities and reasonable time period to interested persons to comment on the proposed introduction or amendments of general laws, regulations, and general administrative procedures related to import and export.   Article 4.2: Release of Goods  1. In order to facilitate bilateral trade, each Party shall adopt or maintain simplified customs procedures for the efficient release of goods.  2. Pursuant to paragraph 1, each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures that:  (a) provide for the release of goods within a period no greater than that required to ensure compliance with its customs laws and regulations;  (b) provide for customs information to be submitted and processed manually or electronically before the goods arrive in order for them to be released on their arrival;  (c) allow goods to be released at the point of arrival, without temporary transfer to warehouses or other facilities; and  (d) allow importers to withdraw goods from customs with guarantees, before, and without prejudice to, its customs authority’s final determination of the applicable customs duties, taxes, and fees.   
Article 4.3: Automation  To the extent possible, each Party shall use information technology that expedites procedures for the release of goods and shall:  (a) make electronic systems accessible to customs users;  (b) endeavor to use international standards;  (c) endeavor to develop electronic systems that are compatible with the other Party’s systems, in order to facilitate bilateral exchange of international trade data; and  (d) endeavor to develop a set of common data elements and processes in accordance with World Customs Organization (hereinafter referred to as the “WCO”) Customs Data Model and related WCO recommendations and guidelines.   Article 4.4: Risk Management  Each Party shall adopt or maintain electronic or automated risk management systems for assessment and targeting that enable its customs authority to focus its inspection activities on high-risk consignments and that simplify the clearance and movement of low-risk consignments.    Article 4.5: Cooperation  1. With a view to facilitating the effective operation of this Agreement, each Party shall endeavor to provide the other Party with advance notice of any significant modification of administrative policy or other similar development related to its laws or regulations governing importations and exportations that is likely to substantially affect the operation of this Agreement.   2. The Parties affirm their commitment to facilitate the legitimate movement of goods and shall exchange expertise on measures to improve customs techniques and procedures, and on computerized systems.  3. The Parties shall commit to:  (a) pursuing the harmonization of documentation and data elements used in trade according to international standards for the purpose of facilitating the flow of trade between them in customs-related matters regarding the importation, 
exportation, and transit of goods;  (b) intensifying cooperation between their customs laboratories and scientific departments and to working towards the harmonization of customs laboratories methods;  (c) exchanging customs’ personnel;  (d)  jointly organizing training programs on customs-related   issues, for the officials who participate directly in customs procedures;  (e) developing effective mechanisms for communicating with the trade and business communities;  (f) assisting, to the extent practicable, each other in the tariff classification, valuation, and determination of origin;  (g) promoting strong and efficient intellectual property rights enforcement by customs authorities, regarding imports, exports, re-exports, transit, transshipments, and other customs procedures, and in particular as regards counterfeit goods; and  (h) improving the security, while facilitating trade, of sea-container and other shipments from all locations that are imported into, transshipped through, or transiting the Parties.  The Parties agree that the objectives of the intensified and broadened cooperation include, but are not limited to:  (i) working together to reinforce the customs-related aspects for securing the logistics chain of international trade; and    (ii) coordinating positions, to the greatest extent practicable, in any multilateral fora where issues related to container security may be appropriately raised and discussed.   Article 4.6: Confidentiality  1. Where a Party that provides information to the other Party in accordance with this Chapter designates the information as confidential, the other Party shall keep the information confidential.  The Party providing the information may require the other Party to furnish written assurance that the information will be held in confidence, will be used only for the purpose the 
other Party specified in its request for information, and will not be disclosed without the specific permission of the Party that provided the information or the person that provided the information to that Party.   2. If a Party receives information designated as confidential in accordance with paragraph 1, the Party receiving the information may, under its domestic law and legal system, use or disclose the information for law enforcement purposes or in the course of judicial proceedings with a written consent from the other Party.  3. A Party may decline to provide information that the other Party has requested where that Party has failed to act in conformity with paragraph 1.   4. Each Party shall adopt or maintain procedures for protecting from unauthorized disclosure of confidential information submitted in accordance with the administration of the Party’s customs laws, including information the disclosure of which could prejudice the competitive position of the person providing the information.   Article 4.7: Express Shipments  Each Party is encouraged to adopt or maintain expedited customs procedures for express shipments while maintaining appropriate customs control and selection.  These procedures shall:  (a) provide for a separate and expedited customs procedures for express shipments and, where applicable, use the WCO Guidelines for the Immediate Release of Consignments;  (b) provide for information necessary to process an express shipment to be submitted manually or electronically before the shipment arrives; and  (c) to the extent possible, provide for certain goods to be cleared with a minimum of documentation.   Article 4.8: Review or Appeal  Each Party shall ensure that with respect to its determinations/decisions on customs matters, importers in its territory have access to:  (a) a level of administrative review or appeal higher than or independent of the employee or office that issued the determinations/decisions; and 
 (b) judicial review or appeal of the determinations/decisions.   Article 4.9: Penalties  Each Party shall adopt or maintain measures that allow for the imposition of civil or administrative penalties and, where appropriate, criminal sanctions for violations of its customs laws and regulations.   Article 4.10: Advance Rulings  1. Each Party shall issue, through its customs authority, before a good is imported into its territory, a written advance ruling or information at the written request of an importer in its territory, with regard to:  (a) ruling on tariff classification;  (b) information on the application of customs valuation criteria for a particular case, in accordance with the Article VII of GATT 1994 and Customs Valuation Agreement; or   (c) any such other matters as the Parties may agree.  2. An advanced ruling and information issued by a Party shall be binding on that Party in respect of the applicant that had sought it.  3. Each Party shall issue an advance ruling within 90 days after its customs authority receives a request, provided that the requester has submitted all information that the Party requires, including, if the Party requests, a sample of the good for which the requester is seeking an advance ruling.  In issuing an advance ruling, the Party shall take into account facts and circumstances the requester has provided.  For greater certainty, a Party may decline to issue an advance ruling if the facts and circumstances forming the basis of the advance ruling are the subject of administrative or judicial review.  A Party that, pursuant to this paragraph, declines to issue an advance ruling shall promptly notify the requester in writing, setting forth the relevant facts and the basis for its decision to decline to issue the advance ruling.  4. Each Party shall provide that advance rulings shall take effect on the date they are issued, or on another date specified in the ruling, provided that the facts or circumstances on which the ruling is based remain unchanged.  5. The issuing Party may modify or revoke an advance ruling and shall promptly provide written notice to the requester. 
 6. Each Party shall ensure that requesters have access to administrative review of advance rulings.  7. If a requester provides false information or omits relevant facts or circumstances relating to the advance ruling, or does not act in accordance with the ruling’s terms and conditions, the importing Party may apply appropriate measures, including civil, criminal, and administrative actions, monetary penalties, or other sanctions.    Article 4.11: Consultation  1. Either customs authority at any time may request for consultations with the other customs authority on any matter arising from the operation or implementation of this Chapter and Chapter three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures), in cases where there are reasonable grounds or truth provided by the requesting Party.  Such consultations shall be conducted through the relevant contact points.   2. In the event that such consultations fail to resolve any such matter, the requesting Party may refer the matter to the Committee on Customs and Trade Facilitation referred to in Article 4.12.   Article 4.12: Committee on Customs and Trade Facilitation  1. The Parties hereby establish Committee on Customs and Trade Facilitation (hereinafter referred to as the “Committee”) composed of the customs authorities of the Parties. Other competent authorities of the Parties may join the Committee if the Parties deem it necessary.   2. The Committee shall ensure the proper functioning of this Chapter and Chapter Three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures) and examine all the issues arising from the application of these Chapters.  3. The functions of the Committee may include:  (a) reviewing, discussing, and proposing effective, uniform, and consistent administration of this Chapter and Chapter Three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures);  (b) reviewing, discussing, and proposing uniform regulations for the effective, uniform, and consistent interpretation of this Chapter and Chapter Three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures); 
 (c) revising Annex 3-A (Product Specific Rules) on the basis of the transposition of the Harmonized System (hereinafter referred to as the “HS”);  (d) consulting on and endeavoring to resolve any difference that may arise between the Parties on matters related to the classification of goods under the HS;  (e) reviewing the possibility of revision and reaching agreement on revision of this Chapter and Chapter Three (Rules of Origin and Origin Procedures);  4. The Committee shall meet every year, or as otherwise agreed, alternating between the Parties.    
ANNEX 2-A Reduction or Elimination of Customs Duties   General Notes  1. Except as otherwise provided in a Party’s Schedule in this Annex, the following staging categories apply to the reduction or elimination of customs duties by each Party pursuant to Article 2.4.2:  (a)  Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E0” shall be eliminated entirely as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement;  (b) Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E3” shall be eliminated in three equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year three;  (c) Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E5” shall be eliminated in five equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year five;  (d)  Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E7” shall be eliminated in seven equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year seven;  (e)  Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E10” shall be eliminated in 10 equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year 10;  (f)  Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E15” shall be eliminated in 15 equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year 15;  (g)  Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “E20” shall be eliminated in 20 equal annual installments from the Base Rate to free, as from the 
date of entry into force of this Agreement, and such goods shall be free of customs duty, effective 1 January of year 20; and  (h)  The originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “Standstill” (SS) shall remain at the Base Rates.  2. The originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “EX” shall be excluded from any commitment of reduction or elimination of customs duties.    3. The Base Rate of customs duty set out in a Party’s Schedule in this Annex reflects the lower of each Party’s MFN applied rate of customs duty in effect on 1 January 2018, and its preferential rate of customs duty under the ASEAN-Korea FTA, in effect on 1 January 2018.    4. The Base Rate of customs duty and staging category for determining the interim rate of customs duty at each stage of reduction for a tariff line are indicated for the tariff line in each Party’s Schedule.    5. Interim staged rates shall be rounded down, at least to the nearest tenth of a percentage point or, if the rate of customs duty is expressed in monetary units, at least to the nearest Korean Won in the case of Korea and the nearest Indonesian Rupiah in the case of Indonesia.    6. For purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, year one means the year this Agreement enters into force as provided in Article 13.4 (Entry into Force).    7. For purposes of this Annex and a Party’s Schedule, beginning in year two, each annual stage of tariff reduction shall take effect on 1 January of the relevant year.     
Notes for Schedule of Korea   1. Relation to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of Korea (hereinafter referred to as “HSK”). The provisions of this Schedule are generally expressed in terms of the HSK, and the interpretation of the provisions of this Schedule shall be governed by the General Notes, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes of the HSK.  To the extent that provisions of this Schedule are identical to the corresponding provisions of the HSK, the provisions of this Schedule shall have the same meaning as the corresponding provisions of the HSK.    2. Staging. In addition to the staging categories listed in paragraph 1 of Annex 2-A, this Schedule contains staging category RED. Customs duties on originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “RED” shall be reduced by 25 percent of the Base Rate within 10 years, in equal annual installments starting from the date of entry into force of this Agreement.    
Schedule of Korea  
[['HSK 2018', 'DESCRIPTION', 'BASE\nRATE', 'STAGING\nCATEGORY'], ['0101211000', 'For farm breeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101291000', 'Horses for racing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101301000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0101900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102211000', 'For milk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102212000', 'For meat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102291000', 'For milk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102292000', 'For meat', '32.0%', 'SS'], ['0102299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102310000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102391000', 'For milk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102392000', 'For meat', '32.0%', 'SS'], ['0102399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102901000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102909010', 'For milk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0102909020', 'For meat', '32.0%', 'SS'], ['0102909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0103100000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0103910000', 'Weighing less than 50 kg', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0103920000', 'Weighing 50 kg or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0104101000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0104109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0104201000', 'Milk goats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0104209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105111000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105120000', 'Turkeys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105131000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105140000', 'Geese', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105150000', 'Guinea fowls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105941000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105991010', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105992000', 'Turkeys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0105999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106110000', 'Primates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106121000', 'Whales, dolphins and\nporpoises(mammals of the order\nCetacea); manatees and\ndugongs(mammals of the order\nSirenia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106122000', 'Seals, sea lions and\nwalruses(mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106130000', 'Camels and other\ncamelids(Camelidae)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106141000', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106191000', 'Dogs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106193000', 'Deer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106194000', 'Bears', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106195010', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106195090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106196010', 'Pure-bred breeding animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106196090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106201000', 'Snakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106202000', 'Fresh-water tortoises', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0106203000', 'Turtles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106310000', 'Birds of prey', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106320000', 'Psittaciformes (including parrots,\nparakeets, macaws and cockatoos)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106330000', 'Ostriches; emus (Dromaius\nnovaehollandiae)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106411000', 'Honey bees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106901000', 'Amphibia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106903010', 'Lug worms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106903020', 'Sludge worms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0106909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0201100000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '32.0%', 'SS'], ['0201201000', 'Short ribs', '32.0%', 'EX'], ['0201209000', 'Other', '32.0%', 'EX'], ['0201300000', 'Boneless', '32.0%', 'EX'], ['0202100000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '32.0%', 'SS'], ['0202201000', 'Short ribs', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['0202209000', 'Other', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['0202300000', 'Boneless', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['0203110000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0203120000', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof,\nwith bone in', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0203191000', 'Streaky pork', '22.5%', 'EX'], ['0203199000', 'Other', '22.5%', 'EX'], ['0203210000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0203220000', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof,\nwith bone in', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0203291000', 'Streaky pork', '25.0%', 'EX'], ['0203299000', 'Other', '25.0%', 'EX'], ['0204100000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses of\nlamb, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204210000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204220000', 'Other cuts with bone in', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204230000', 'Boneless', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204300000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses of\nlamb, frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204410000', 'Carcasses and half-carcasses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204420000', 'Other cuts with bone in', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204430000', 'Boneless', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204501000', 'Fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0204502000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0205001000', 'Fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0205002000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0206100000', 'Of bovine animals, fresh or chilled', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0206210000', 'Tongues', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0206220000', 'Livers', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0206291000', 'Tails', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206292000', 'Feet', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206299000', 'Other', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206300000', 'Of swine, fresh or chilled', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206410000', 'Livers', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206491000', 'Feet', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206499000', 'Other', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0206800000', 'Other, fresh or chilled', '14.4%', 'E10'], ['0206900000', 'Other, frozen', '14.4%', 'E10'], ['0207111000', 'Weighing not more than 550 g', '14.4%', 'SS'], ['0207119000', 'Other', '14.4%', 'SS'], ['0207121000', 'Weighing not more than 550 g', '16.0%', 'SS'], ['0207129000', 'Other', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0207131010', 'Leg', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207131020', 'Breast', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207131030', 'Wing', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207131090', 'Other', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207132010', 'Liver', '18.0%', 'SS'], ['0207132090', 'Other', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['0207141010', 'Leg', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0207141020', 'Breast', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0207141030', 'Wing', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0207141090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0207142010', 'Liver', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0207142090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0207240000', 'Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207250000', 'Not cut in pieces, frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207261000', 'Cuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207262010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207262090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207271000', 'Cuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207272010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207272090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207410000', 'Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '14.4%', 'SS'], ['0207420000', 'Not cut in pieces, frozen', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207430000', 'Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207441000', 'Cuts', '14.4%', 'SS'], ['0207442010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207442090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207451000', 'Cuts', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207452010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207452090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207510000', 'Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207520000', 'Not cut in pieces, frozen', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207530000', 'Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207541000', 'Cuts', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207542010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207542090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207551000', 'Cuts', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207552010', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207552090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207601000', 'Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207602000', 'Not cut in pieces, frozen', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207603100', 'Cuts', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['0207603210', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207603290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207604100', 'Cuts', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['0207604210', 'Liver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0207604290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208100000', 'Of rabbits or hares', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208300000', 'Of primates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208401000', 'Of whales, dolphins and\nporpoises(mammals of the order\nCetacea); of manatees and\ndugongs(mammals of the order\nSirenia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208402000', 'Of seals, sea lions and\nwalruses(mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208500000', 'Of reptiles (including snakes and\nturtles)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208600000', 'Of camels and other camelids\n(Camelidae)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208901000', 'Of deer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208909010', 'Of marine animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0208909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0209100000', 'Of pigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0209900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210110000', 'Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof,\nwith bone in', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0210120000', 'Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['0210190000', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0210201000', 'Dried or smoked', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0210209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210910000', 'Of primates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210921000', 'Of whales, dolphins and\nporpoises(mammals of the order\nCetacea); of manatees and\ndugongs(mammals of the order\nSirenia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210922000', 'Of seals, sea lions and\nwalruses(mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210930000', 'Of reptiles (including snakes and\nturtles)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210991010', 'Of bovine animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210991020', 'Of swine', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0210991030', 'Of poultry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210999010', 'Of sheep or goats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210999020', 'Of poultry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0210999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301111000', 'Fancy carp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301119000', 'Other', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'EX'], ['0301190000', 'Other', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'EX'], ['0301911000', 'Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus\naguabonita, Oncorhynchus gilae', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301912000', 'Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301921000', 'Glass eels(Not exceeding 0.3g per\nunit, for aquaculture)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301922000', 'Young eels(exceeding 0.3g and not\nexceeding 50g per unit, for\naquaculture)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0301929010', 'Glass eels, other than for aquaculture', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0301929090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0301930000', 'Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301941000', 'Atlantic bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301942000', 'Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\norientalis)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301950000', 'Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301992000', 'Yellow tail', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0301994010', 'Fry (for aquaculture)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301994090', 'Other', '28% or\n2,052won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0301995000', 'Conger eel', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0301996000', 'Sharp toothed eel', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0301997000', 'Hagfish', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0301998000', 'Flat fish', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0301999010', 'True bass', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999020', 'Puffers', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999030', 'Tilapia', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999040', 'Rock fish (including pacific ocean\nperch)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999051', 'Fry (for aquaculture)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999059', 'Other', '28.0%', 'EX'], ['0301999060', 'Mullets', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999070', 'Loaches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999080', 'Cat fishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999091', 'Rock Trout (Hexagrammos spp.,\nAgrammus spp.)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0301999092', 'Crusian carp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999093', 'Salmon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999094', 'Grass carp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999095', 'Croakers', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0301999096', 'Carp (Other than Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon\npiceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus\nhoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0301999099', 'Other', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0302111000', 'Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus\naquabonita, Oncorhynchus gilae', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302112000', 'Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302130000', 'Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\nnerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,\nOncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus\ntschawytscha, Oncorhynchus\nkisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302140000', 'Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302210000', 'Halibut (Reinhardtius\nhippoglossoides, Hippoglossus\nhippoglossus, Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0302220000', 'Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302230000', 'Sole (Solea spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302240000', 'Turbots (Psetta maxima)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302290000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302310000', 'Albacore or longfinned tunas\n(Thunnus alalunga)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302320000', 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302330000', 'Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302340000', 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0302351000', 'Atlantic bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302352000', 'Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\norientalis)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302360000', 'Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302390000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302410000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302420000', 'Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302430000', 'Sardines (Sardina pilchardus,\nSardinops spp.), sardinella\n(Sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(Sprattus sprattus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302440000', 'Mackerel (Scomber scombrus,\nScomber australasicus, Scomber\njaponicus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302450000', 'Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus\nspp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302460000', 'Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302470000', 'Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302491000', 'Seerfishes (Scomberomorus spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302492000', 'Silver pomfrets (Pampus spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302493000', 'Pacific saury (Cololabis saira)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302499000', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302510000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0302520000', 'Haddock (Melanogrammus\naeglefinus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302530000', 'Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302540000', 'Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302550000', 'Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302560000', 'Blue whitings (Micromesistius\npoutassou, Micromesistius australis)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302590000', 'Other', '0.0% /\n20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302710000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302720000', 'Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302730000', 'Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.)', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302740000', 'Eels (Anguilla spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302790000', 'Other', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302810000', 'Dogfish and other sharks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302820000', 'Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302830000', 'Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302840000', 'Seabass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302850000', 'Seabream (Sparidae)', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302891000', 'Yellow tail', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0302892000', 'Hair tail', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302893000', 'Conger eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302894000', 'Sharp toothed eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302895000', 'Horn fish (Hyporhampus sajori)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302896000', 'Seabream(other than Sparidae)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302899020', 'Puffers', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302899040', 'Angler (monkfish)', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['0302899090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0302911000', 'Livers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302912000', 'Roes, milt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302920000', 'Shark fins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0302990000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%\n/ 16.0% /\n20.0%', 'EX'], ['0303110000', 'Sockeye salmon (red salmon)\n(Oncorhynchus nerka)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303120000', 'Other Pacific salmon(Oncorhynchus\ngorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch,\nOncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303130000', 'Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303140000', 'Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus\napache and Oncorhynchus\nchrysogaster)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303230000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '10.0%', 'RED'], ['0303240000', 'Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303250000', 'Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.)', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303260000', 'Eels (Anguilla spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303290000', 'Other', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303310000', 'Halibut (Reinhardtius\nhippoglossoides, Hippoglossus\nhippoglossus, Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303320000', 'Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303330000', 'Sole (Solea spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303340000', 'Turbots (Psetta maxima)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303390000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303410000', 'Albacore or longfinned tunas\n(Thunnus alalunga)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303420000', 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', '5.0%', 'RED'], ['0303430000', 'Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', '5.0%', 'RED'], ['0303440000', 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303451000', 'Atlantic bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303452000', 'Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\norientalis)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303460000', 'Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303490000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303510000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303530000', 'Sardines (Sardina pilchardus,\nSardinops spp.), sardinella\n(Sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(Sprattus sprattus)', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['0303540000', 'Mackerel (Scomber scombrus,\nScomber australasicus, Scomber\njaponicus)', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['0303550000', 'Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus\nspp.)', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303560000', 'Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303570000', 'Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '10.0%', 'RED'], ['0303591000', 'seerfishes (Scomberomorus spp.)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303592000', 'Pacific saury (Cololabis saira)', '26.0%', 'EX'], ['0303599000', 'Other', '10.0%', 'RED'], ['0303630000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303640000', 'Haddock (Melanogrammus\naeglefinus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303650000', 'Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303660000', 'Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303670000', 'Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '22.0%', 'EX'], ['0303680000', 'Blue whitings (Micromesistius\npoutassou, Micromesistius australis)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303691000', 'Whip tail or hoki', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303699000', 'Other', '22.0%', 'E10'], ['0303810000', 'Dogfish and other sharks', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303821000', 'Rays', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303822000', 'Skates', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303830000', 'Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303840000', 'Sea bass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303891000', 'Sable fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303892000', 'Hair tail', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303893010', 'Red horsehead fish (Branchiostegus\nJaponicus)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303893090', 'Other', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303894000', 'Conger eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303895000', 'Yellow corvina', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303896000', 'Horn fish (Hyporhampus sajori)', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303898000', 'Puffers', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['0303899010', 'White sea smelt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899020', 'Thorny head', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899030', 'John dory', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899040', 'Atka mackerel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899050', 'Rock fish (including pacific ocean\nperch)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303899060', 'Angler (monkfish)', '10.0%', 'E10'], ['0303899070', 'Hagfish (Pacific, Atlantic)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0303899080', 'Milk fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899091', 'Croakers', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303899092', 'Sand lance', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899093', 'Toothfish, other than Dissostichus\nspp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303899099', 'Other', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['0303911000', 'Livers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303912010', 'Of alaska pollack', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303912090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0303920000', 'Shark fins', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0303990000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%\n/ 10.0%', 'EX'], ['0304310000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304320000', 'Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304330000', 'Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304410000', 'Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\nnerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,\nOncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus\ntschawytscha, Oncorhynchus\nkisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus), Atlantic\nsalmon (Salmo salar) and Danube\nsalmon (Hucho hucho)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304420000', 'Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus\napache and Oncorhynchus\nchrysogaster)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304431000', 'Plaice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304439000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304440000', 'Fish of the families\nBregmacerotidae, Euclichthyidae,\nGadidae, Macrouridae, Melanonidae,\nMerlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304450000', 'Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304460000', 'Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304470000', 'Dogfish and other sharks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304481000', 'Rays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304482000', 'Skates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304491000', 'Conger eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304492000', 'Bluefin tunas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304511000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304521000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304531000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304539000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304541000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304549000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304551000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304559000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304561000', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304569000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304571010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304571090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304572010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304572090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304591010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304591090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304592010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304592090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304593010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304593090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304599010', 'Fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304599090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304610000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304620000', 'Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304630000', 'Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304710000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304720000', 'Haddock (Melanogrammus\naeglefinus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304730000', 'Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304740000', 'Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304750000', 'Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304790000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304810000', 'Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\nnerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,\nOncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus\ntschawytscha, Oncorhynchus\nkisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus), Atlantic\nsalmon (Salmo salar) and Danube\nsalmon (Hucho hucho)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304820000', 'Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus\napache and Oncorhynchus\nchrysogaster)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304831000', 'Plaice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304839000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304840000', 'Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304850000', 'Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304860000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304871000', 'Bluefin tunas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304879000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304881000', 'Dogfish, other sharks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304882000', 'Rays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304883000', 'Skates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304891000', 'Of conger-eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304892000', 'Of toothfish, other than Dissostichus\nspp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304893000', 'Of tilapia, other than Oreochromis\nspp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304894000', 'Of file fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304911000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304921000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304931000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304941000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304951000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304959000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304961000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304969000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304971010', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304971090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304972010', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304972090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304991000', 'Frozen fish surimi', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0304999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305100000', 'Flours, meals and pellets of fish, fit\nfor human consumption', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305201000', 'Livers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305202000', 'Roes and milt, dried', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305203000', 'Roes and milt, smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305204010', 'Of alaska pollack', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305204020', 'Of yellow corvina', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305204030', 'Of herrings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305204090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305311000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305312000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305321000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305322000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305391000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305392000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305410000', 'Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\nnerka, Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,\nOncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus\ntschawytscha, Oncorhynchus\nkisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus), Atlantic\nsalmon (Salmo salar) and Danube\nsalmon (Hucho hucho)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305420000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305430000', 'Trout(Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus\napache and Oncorhynchus\nchrysogaster)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305440000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus\nspp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla\nspp.), Nile perch (Lates niloticus)\nand snakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305491000', 'Anchovies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305492000', 'Alaska pollack', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305510000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305520000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus\nspp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla\nspp.), Nile perch (Lates niloticus)\nand snakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305530000', 'Fish of the families\nBregmacerotidae, Euclichthyidae,\nGadidae, Macrouridae, Melanonidae,\nMerlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, other than cod\n(Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'macrocephalus)', '', ''], ['0305541000', 'anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0305549000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305593000', 'Alaska pollack', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305594000', 'Yellow corvina', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305595000', 'Puffers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305596000', 'Sharp toothed eel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305597000', 'Sand lance', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305598000', 'Blenny or gunnel, including juvenile\nwhite bait', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305610000', 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305620000', 'Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305631000', 'Salt fermented anchovy', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305639000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305640000', 'Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus\nspp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus\nspp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla\nspp.), Nile perch (Lates niloticus)\nand snakeheads (Channa spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305691000', 'Salmon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305692000', 'Trout', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305693000', 'Hair tail', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305694000', 'Sardines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305695000', 'Mackerel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305696000', 'Yellow corvina', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305697000', 'Jack and horse mackerel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305698000', 'Saury (including horn fish)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305699000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305711000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305712000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305713000', 'Salted or in brine', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0305721000', 'Of cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0305729000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%\n/ 16.0%', 'E10'], ['0305790000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%\n/ 16.0%', 'E10'], ['0306111000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306119000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0306121010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306121020', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306129000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['0306141011', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306141012', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306141090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306142010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306142090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306143010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306143090', 'Other', '11.2%', 'EX'], ['0306149010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306149090', 'Other', '11.2%', 'EX'], ['0306151000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306161010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306161090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306169010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306169090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306171010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306171090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306179010', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306179090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306191000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306310000', 'Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus\nspp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306320000', 'Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306331000', 'Blue crabs', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0306332000', 'Snow crabs', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0306339000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0306340000', 'Norway lobsters (Nephrops\nnorvegicus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306350000', 'Cold-water shrimps and prawns\n(Pandalus spp., Crangon crangon)', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306360000', 'Other shrimps and prawns', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0306390000', 'Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306912000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306913000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306914000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306922000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306923000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306924010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306924020', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306932000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306933000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306934011', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306934012', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306934090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306942000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306943000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306944000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306951020', 'Dried', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0306951030', 'Salted or in brine', '32.0%', 'E10'], ['0306951040', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306959020', 'Dried', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['0306959030', 'Salted or in brine', '32.0%', 'EX'], ['0306959040', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306992000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306993000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0306994000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307111010', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307111090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307120000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307192000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307193000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307194000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307210000', 'Live, fresh or chilled', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0307220000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307292000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307293000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307294000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307310000', 'Live, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307320000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307392000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307393000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307421010', 'Sepia officinalis, Rossia macrosoma,\nSepiola spp.', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307421090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307422010', 'Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.', '8.0%', 'E10'], ['0307422090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307431010', 'Sepia officinalis, Rossia macrosoma,\nSepiola spp.', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['0307431090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0307432010', 'Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.', '21.6%', 'EX'], ['0307432090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0307492010', 'Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.) :', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['0307492090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307493010', 'Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.) :', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['0307493090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307494010', 'Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.) :', '0.0% /\n16.0%', 'E10'], ['0307494090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307511000', 'Poulp squid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307512000', 'Webfoot octopus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307521000', 'Octopus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307522000', 'Poulp squid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307523000', 'Webfoot octopus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307592000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307593000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307601000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307711010', 'Hard clams spat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307711090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307712010', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307712090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307713000', 'Cockles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307714000', 'Baby clams', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307715000', 'Butter clam', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307719000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307721000', 'Cockles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307722000', 'Hen clams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307723000', 'Baby clams', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307724000', 'Ark shell', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307725000', 'Butter clam', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['0307729000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'RED'], ['0307792010', 'Hen clams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307792020', 'Baby clams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307792030', 'Butter clam', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307792090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307793010', 'Hen clams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307793020', 'Baby clams', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307793030', 'Butter clam', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307793090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307794011', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307794019', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307794090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307810000', 'Live, fresh or chilled abalone\n(Haliotis spp.)', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0307820000', 'Live, fresh or chilled stromboid\nconchs (Strombus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307830000', 'Frozen abalone (Haliotis spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307840000', 'Frozen stromboid conchs (Strombus\nspp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307871000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307872000', 'Salted or in brine', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307873000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307881000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307882000', 'Salted or in brine', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307883000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307911000', 'Top shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307912010', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307912090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307913000', 'Adductors of shell fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307914000', 'Marsh clams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307921000', 'Adductors of shell fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307922000', 'Top shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307929000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0307992100', 'Adductors of shell fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307992900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307993100', 'Top shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307993900', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0307994110', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307994120', 'Not in airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0307994900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308110000', 'Live, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308120000', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308192000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308193000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308194000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308210000', 'Live, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308220000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0308292000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308293000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308294000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308301000', 'Live, fresh or chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308302000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0308303000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308304000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308305000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308901011', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308901019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308902010', 'Sea-squirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308902090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0308903010', 'Sea-squirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308904000', 'Salted or in brine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0308905000', 'Smoked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0401100000', 'Of a fat content, by weight, not\nexceeding 1 %', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0401200000', 'Of a fat content, by weight,\nexceeding 1 % but not exceeding\n6 %', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0401401000', 'Frozen cream', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0401409000', 'Other', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0401501000', 'Frozen cream', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0401509000', 'Other', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0402101010', 'Skim milk powder', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402101090', 'Other', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402109000', 'Other', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402211000', 'Whole milk powder', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402219000', 'Other', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402290000', 'Other', '140.8%', 'EX'], ['0402911000', 'Unsweetened evaporated milk', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0402919000', 'Other', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0402991000', 'Sweetened evaporated milk', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0402999000', 'Other', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0403101000', 'Fluid', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0403102000', 'Frozen', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0403109000', 'Other', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0403901000', 'Butter milk', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0403902000', 'Curdled milk and cream', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['0403903000', 'Kephir', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0403909000', 'Other fermented or acidified milk\nand cream', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['0404101011', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404101019', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404101091', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404101099', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404102111', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404102119', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404102121', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404102129', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404102131', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404102139', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404102191', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404102199', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404102910', 'For feeding', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['0404102990', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0404901000', 'Of a fat content, by weight, not\nexceeding 1.5 %', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0404902000', 'Of a fat content, by weight,\nexceeding 1.5 %', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0405100000', 'Butter', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0405200000', 'Dairy spreads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0405900000', 'Other', '71.2%', 'EX'], ['0406101010', 'Mozzarella cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406101020', 'Cream cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406101090', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406102000', 'Curd', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['0406200000', 'Grated or powdered cheese, of all\nkinds', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0406300000', 'Processed cheese, not grated or\npowdered', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['0406400000', 'Blue-veined cheese and other cheese\ncontaining veins produced by\nPenicillium roqueforti', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['0406901000', 'Cheddar cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406902000', 'Gouda cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406903000', 'Camembert cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406904000', 'Emmental cheese', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0406909000', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0407110000', 'Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', '21.6%', 'EX'], ['0407190000', 'Other', '21.6%', 'EX'], ['0407210000', 'Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0407290000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0407900000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0408110000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0408190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0408910000', 'Dried', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0408991000', 'Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', '33.2%', 'EX'], ['0408999000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0409000000', 'Natural honey.', '194.4% or\n1,491won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0410002000', "Edible-nest Swiftlet' nests", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0410003000', 'Royal jelly', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0410009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0501000000', 'Human hair, unworked, whether or\nnot washed or scoured; waste of\nhuman hair.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0502100000', "Pigs', hogs' or boars' bristles and hair\nand waste thereof", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0502902000', 'Goat hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0502909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001010', 'Of bovine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001021', 'For sausage casing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001031', 'For sausage casing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504002000', 'Bladders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0504003000', 'Stomachs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0505100000', 'Feathers of a kind used for stuffing;\ndown', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0505901000', 'Powder of feathers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0505909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0506100000', 'Ossein and bones treated with acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0506901020', 'Of bovine animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0506901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0506902000', 'Powder of bones', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['0506909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0507101000', 'Ivory of elephant', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0507109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0507901110', 'In whole', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0507901190', 'Other', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0507901200', 'Antlers', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['0507902010', 'Tortoise shells and plates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0507902020', 'Whalebone and whalebone hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0507902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508001000', 'Coral', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002010', 'Mother of pearl shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002020', 'Abalone shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002030', 'Oyster shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002040', 'Snail shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002050', 'Trocus shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002060', 'Agoya shells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002070', 'Fresh water shells\n(Megalonaiasnervosa,\nAmblemaplicata, Quadrula quadrula\nspp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0508009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510001000', 'Ambergris', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510002000', 'Castoreum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510003000', 'Musk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510004000', 'Ox bezoar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510005000', 'Pteropi faeces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510009010', 'Pancreas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510009020', 'Bile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510009030', 'Gecko', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0510009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511100000', 'Bovine semen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511911010', 'Brine shrimp eggs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511911090', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['0511912000', 'Fish waste', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['0511919000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['0511991000', 'Animal blood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511992010', 'Swine semen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511992090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511993010', 'Of bovine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511993020', 'Of swine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511993090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511994000', 'Sinews and tendons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511995011', 'Dressed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511995019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511995020', 'Horsehair waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511996000', 'Natural sponges of animal origin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511999010', 'Silkworm eggs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511999020', 'Chrysalis of silk worm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511999030', 'Dead animals, other than products of\ndead animals of Chapter 3', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511999040', 'Paring and similar waste of rawhides\nor skins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0511999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601101000', 'Of tulips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601102000', 'Of lilies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601103000', 'Of dahlias', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601104000', 'Of hyacinthus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601105000', 'Of gladiolus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601106000', 'Of iris', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601107000', 'Of freesias', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601108000', 'Of narcissus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601201000', 'Of tulips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601202000', 'Of lilies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601203000', 'Of dahlias', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601204000', 'Of hyacinthus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601205000', 'Of gladiolus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601206000', 'Chicory plants and roots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601207000', 'Of iris', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601208000', 'Of freesias', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601209010', 'Of narcissus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0601209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602101000', 'Of fruit trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0602201000', 'Apple trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602202000', 'Pear trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602203000', 'Peach trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602204000', 'Grape vines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602205000', 'Persimmon trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602206000', 'Citrus trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602207010', 'Chestnut trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602207020', 'Walnut trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602207030', 'Korean pine trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602300000', 'Rhododendrons and azaleas, grafted\nor not', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602400000', 'Roses, grafted or not', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901010', 'Orchids or orchises', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901020', 'Carnations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901030', 'Guzmania empire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901040', 'Gypsophilas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901050', 'Chrysanthemums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901060', 'Cactus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602901090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0602902011', 'For bonsai', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902020', 'Larch trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902030', 'Cryptomeria', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902040', 'Japanese cypress', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902050', 'Rigi-taeda', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902061', 'For bonsai', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902069', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902071', 'For bonsai', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902079', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902081', 'For bonsai', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902089', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902091', 'For bonsai', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602902099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602909010', 'Peony trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602909020', 'Camellia trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602909030', 'Mulberry trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602909040', 'Mushroom spawn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0602909090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603110000', 'Roses', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0603120000', 'Carnations', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0603131000', 'Cymbidiums', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0603132000', 'Phalaenopsis', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603139000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603140000', 'Chrysanthemums', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['0603150000', 'Lilies (Lilium spp.)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603191000', 'Tulips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0603192000', 'Gladiolus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0603194000', 'Gypsophila', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603199000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0603900000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0604201000', 'Mosses and lichens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0604202010', 'Leaves of ginkgos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0604202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0604209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0604901000', 'Mosses and lichens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0604909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0701100000', 'For seed', '243.2%', 'SS'], ['0701900000', 'Other', '243.2%', 'EX'], ['0702000000', 'Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0703101000', 'Onions', '135% or\n180won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0703102000', 'Shallots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0703201000', 'Peeled', '360% or\n1,800won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0703209000', 'Other', '360% or\n1,800won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0703901000', 'Leeks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0703909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0704100000', 'Cauliflowers and headed broccoli', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0704200000', 'Brussels sprouts', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0704901000', 'Cabbages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0704902000', 'Chinese cabbages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0704909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0705110000', 'Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0705190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0705210000', 'Witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus\nvar. foliosum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0705290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706101000', 'Carrots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706102000', 'Turnips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706901000', 'Radishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706902000', 'Wasabi and horseradishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706903000', 'Codonopsis', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706904000', 'Platycodon grandiflorum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0706909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0707000000', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or\nchilled.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0708100000', 'Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0708200000', 'Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0708900000', 'Other leguminous vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709200000', 'Asparagus', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0709300000', 'Aubergines (egg-plants)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709400000', 'Celery other than celeriac', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709517000', 'Cultivated mushrooms (Agaricus\nbisporus)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0709519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709591000', 'Pine mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709592000', 'Oak mushrooms', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0709593000', 'Ling chiu mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709594010', 'King oyster mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709594090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709595000', 'Winter mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709596000', 'Truffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709601000', 'Sweet peppers (bell type)', '270% or\n6,210won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0709609000', 'Other', '270% or\n6,210won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0709700000', 'Spinach, New Zealand spinach and\norache spinach (garden spinach)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709910000', 'Globe artichokes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709920000', 'Olives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709930000', 'Pumpkins, squash and gourds\n(Cucurbita spp.)', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0709991000', 'Bracken', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709992000', 'Flowering ferns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0709999000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'RED'], ['0710100000', 'Potatoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710210000', 'Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710220000', 'Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710300000', 'Spinach, New Zealand spinach and\norache spinach (garden spinach)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710400000', 'Sweet corn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710801000', 'Onions', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0710802000', 'Garlic', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['0710803000', 'Bamboo shoots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710804000', 'Carrots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710805000', 'Bracken', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710806000', 'Pine mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710807000', 'Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of\nthe genus Pimenta', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['0710808010', 'Aster [Aster scaber Thunb., Aster\ntataricus L. f., Ligularia fischeri\n(Ledeb.) Turcz., Solidago virgaurea\nsubsp. asiatica Kitam. ex Hara var.\nasiatica]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710808020', 'Korean thistle [Cirsium setidens\n(Dunn) Nakai]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0710900000', 'Mixtures of vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711200000', 'Olives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711400000', 'Cucumbers and gherkins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711510000', 'Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711591000', 'Truffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711901000', 'Garlic', '360% or\n1,800won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0711903000', 'Bamboo shoots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711904000', 'Carrots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711905010', 'Bracken', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711905020', 'Flowering ferns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711905091', 'Fruits of the genus capsicum or of\nthe genus pimenta', '270% or\n6,210won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0711905099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0711909000', 'Mixtures of vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712200000', 'Onions', '135% or\n180won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0712311000', 'Cultivated mushrooms (Agaricus\nbisporus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712320000', 'Wood ears (Auricularia spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712330000', 'Jelly fungi (Tremella spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712391010', 'Pine mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712391020', 'Oak mushrooms', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0712391030', 'Ling chiu mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712391040', 'Oyster mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712391050', 'Winter mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712391090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712392000', 'Truffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712901000', 'Garlic', '360% or\n1,800won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0712902010', 'Bracken', '24% or\n1,446won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0712902020', 'Radishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902030', 'Welsh onions', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0712902040', 'Carrots', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0712902050', 'Pumpkins', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['0712902060', 'Cabbages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902070', 'Taro stems', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0712902080', 'Sweet potato stems', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902091', 'Sweet corn for seeds', '296.0%', 'EX'], ['0712902092', 'Sweet corn, excluding those for\nseeds', '296.0%', 'EX'], ['0712902093', 'Potatoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902094', 'Flowering ferns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902095', 'Codonopsis', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902096', 'Aster [Aster scaber Thunb., Aster\ntataricus L. f., Ligularia fischeri\n(Ledeb.) Turcz., Solidago virgaurea\nsubsp. asiatica Kitam. ex Hara var.\nasiatica]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902097', 'Korean thistle [Cirsium setidens\n(Dunn) Nakai]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712902099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0712909000', 'Mixtures of vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713101000', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713102000', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713200000', 'Chickpeas (garbanzos)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713311000', 'For seed', '486.0%', 'EX'], ['0713319000', 'Other', '486.0%', 'EX'], ['0713321000', 'For seed', '336.6%', 'EX'], ['0713329000', 'Other', '336.6%', 'EX'], ['0713331000', 'For seed', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['0713339000', 'Other', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['0713340000', 'Bambara beans (Vigna subterranea\nor Voandzeia subterranea)', '21.6%', 'E10'], ['0713350000', 'Cow peas (Vigna unguiculata)', '21.6%', 'E10'], ['0713390000', 'Other', '21.6%', 'E10'], ['0713400000', 'Lentils', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0713500000', 'Broad beans (Vicia faba var. major)\nand horse beans (Vicia faba var.\nequina, Vicia faba var. minor)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713600000', 'Pigeon peas (Cajanus cajan)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0713900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0714101000', 'Fresh', '887.4%', 'EX'], ['0714102010', 'Chips', '887.4%', 'EX'], ['0714102020', 'Pellets', '709.9%', 'EX'], ['0714102090', 'Other', '887.4%', 'EX'], ['0714103000', 'Chilled', '887.4%', 'EX'], ['0714104000', 'Frozen', '45.0%', 'EX'], ['0714201000', 'Fresh', '308.0%', 'EX'], ['0714202000', 'Dried', '308.0%', 'EX'], ['0714203000', 'Chilled', '308.0%', 'EX'], ['0714204000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0714301000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['0714309000', 'Other', '192.5%', 'SS'], ['0714401000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['0714409000', 'Other', '192.5%', 'EX'], ['0714501000', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['0714509000', 'Other', '192.5%', 'SS'], ['0714901010', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0714901090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0714909010', 'Frozen', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['0714909090', 'Other', '192.5%', 'EX'], ['0801110000', 'Desiccated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0801120000', 'In the inner shell (endocarp)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0801190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0801210000', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0801220000', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0801310000', 'In shell', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0801320000', 'Shelled', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0802110000', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802120000', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802210000', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802220000', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802310000', 'In shell', '36.0%', 'SS'], ['0802320000', 'Shelled', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['0802410000', 'In shell', '175.5% or\n1,176won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'SS'], ['0802420000', 'Shelled', '175.5% or\n1,176won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'SS'], ['0802510000', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802520000', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802610000', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802620000', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802700000', 'Kola nuts (Cola spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802800000', 'Areca nuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802901010', 'In shell', '453.4% or\n2,131won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0802901020', 'Shelled', '453.4% or\n2,131won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0802902010', 'In shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802902020', 'Shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0802909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0803100000', 'Plantains', '30.0%', 'E15'], ['0803900000', 'Other', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['0804100000', 'Dates', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['0804200000', 'Figs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0804300000', 'Pineapples', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['0804400000', 'Avocados', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0804501000', 'Guavas', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['0804502000', 'Mangoes', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['0804503000', 'Mangosteens', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['0805100000', 'Oranges', '50.0%', 'EX'], ['0805211000', 'Korean citrus', '144.0%', 'EX'], ['0805219000', 'Other', '144.0%', 'EX'], ['0805220000', 'Clementines', '144.0%', 'EX'], ['0805290000', 'Other', '144.0%', 'EX'], ['0805400000', 'Grapefruit, including pomelos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0805501000', 'Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus\nlimonum)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0805502010', 'Citrus aurantifolia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0805502020', 'Citrus latifolia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0805900000', 'Other', '144.0%', 'EX'], ['0806100000', 'Fresh', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0806200000', 'Dried', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0807110000', 'Watermelons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0807190000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0807200000', 'Papaws (papayas)', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['0808100000', 'Apples', '45.0%', 'EX'], ['0808300000', 'Pears', '45.0%', 'EX'], ['0808400000', 'Quinces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0809100000', 'Apricots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0809210000', 'Sour cherries (Prunus cerasus)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0809290000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0809300000', 'Peaches, including nectarines', '36.0%', 'SS'], ['0809401000', 'Plums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0809402000', 'Sloes', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0810100000', 'Strawberries', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0810200000', 'Raspberries, blackberries, mulberries\nand loganberries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0810300000', 'Black, white or red currants and\ngooseberries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0810400000', 'Cranberries, bilberries and other\nfruits of the genus Vaccinium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0810500000', 'Kiwifruit', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0810600000', 'Durians', '36.0%', 'E10'], ['0810701000', 'Sweet persimmons', '36.0%', 'SS'], ['0810709000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['0810903000', 'Jujubes', '489.2% or\n4,640won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'E10'], ['0810905000', 'Mumes', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0810909000', 'Other', '36.0%', ''], ['', '- Salacca (snake fruit)', '36.0%', 'E15'], ['', '- Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0811100000', 'Strawberries', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0811200000', 'Raspberries, blackberries,\nmulberries, loganberries, black,\nwhite or red currants and\ngooseberries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0811901000', 'Chestnuts', '24.0%', 'E20'], ['0811902000', 'Jujubes', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['0811903000', 'Pine-nuts', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['0811909000', 'Other', '24.0%', 'E20'], ['0812100000', 'Cherries', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0812901000', 'Strawberries', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0812909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0813100000', 'Apricots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0813200000', 'Prunes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0813300000', 'Apples', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['0813401000', 'Persimmons', '40.0%', 'E20'], ['0813402000', 'Jujubes', '489.2% or\n4,640won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'E20'], ['0813409000', 'Other', '36.0%', 'E20'], ['0813500000', 'Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of\nthis Chapter', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['0814001000', 'Peel of citrus fruit', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['0814002000', 'Peel of melons (including\nwatermelons)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901110000', 'Not decaffeinated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901120000', 'Decaffeinated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901210000', 'Not decaffeinated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901220000', 'Decaffeinated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901901000', 'Coffee husks and skins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0901902000', 'Coffee substitutes containing coffee', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0902100000', 'Green tea (not fermented) in\nimmediate packings of a content not\nexceeding 3 kg', '513.6%', 'EX'], ['0902200000', 'Other green tea (not fermented)', '513.6%', 'EX'], ['0902300000', 'Black tea (fermented) and partly\nfermented tea, in immediate packings\nof a content not exceeding 3 kg', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0902400000', 'Other black tea (fermented) and\nother partly fermented tea', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0903000000', 'Maté.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0904110000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0904120000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0904210000', 'Dried, neither crushed nor ground', '270% or\n6,210won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0904220000', 'Crushed or ground', '270% or\n6,210won/kg\nwhichever is\nthe greater', 'EX'], ['0905100000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0905200000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0906110000', 'Cinnamon(Cinnamomum\nzeylanicum Blume)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0906191000', 'Cinnamon, other than Cinnamomum\nzeylanicum Blume', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0906192000', 'Cinnamon tree flowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0906201000', 'Cinnamon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0906202000', 'Cinnamon tree flowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0907100000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0907200000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908110000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908120000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908210000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908220000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908310000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0908320000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909210000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909220000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909310000', 'Neither crushed nor ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909320000', 'Crushed or ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909611000', 'Seeds of anise or badian', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909612000', 'Seeds of caraway', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909613000', 'Seeds of fennel and juniper berries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909621000', 'Seeds of anise or badian', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909622000', 'Seeds of caraway', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0909623000', 'Seeds of fennel and juniper berries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910111000', 'Fresh or chilled', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0910112000', 'Dried', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0910119000', 'Other', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0910121000', 'Fresh or chilled', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,', 'EX'], ['', '', 'whichever is\ngreater', ''], ['0910122000', 'Dried', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0910129000', 'Other', '301.8% or\n744won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['0910200000', 'Saffron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910300000', 'Turmeric (curcuma)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910911000', 'Curry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910991000', 'Thyme; bay leaves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['0910999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001110000', 'Seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001911000', 'Meslin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001991010', 'Meslin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001992010', 'Meslin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001992090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001999010', 'Meslin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1001999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1002100000', 'Seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1002900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1003101000', 'Malting barley', '256.5%', 'SS'], ['1003102000', 'Unhulled barley', '162% or\n163won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'SS'], ['1003103000', 'Naked barley', '149.8% or\n180won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'SS'], ['1003109000', 'Other', '149.8%', 'EX'], ['1003901000', 'Malting barley', '256.5%', 'EX'], ['1003902000', 'Unhulled barley', '162% or\n163won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1003903000', 'Naked barley', '149.8% or\n180won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1003909000', 'Other', '149.8%', 'EX'], ['1004100000', 'Seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1004900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1005100000', 'For seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1005901000', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1005902000', 'Popcorn', '315.0%', 'EX'], ['1005909000', 'Other', '164.0%', 'EX'], ['1006100000', 'Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1006201000', 'Nonglutinous', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1006202000', 'Glutinous', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1006301000', 'Nonglutinous', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1006302000', 'Glutinous', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1006400000', 'Broken rice', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1007100000', 'Seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1007900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008100000', 'Buckwheat', '204.8%', 'EX'], ['1008211000', 'Foxtail millet (Setalia italica)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008291000', 'Foxtail millet (Setalia italica)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008300000', 'Canary seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1008400000', 'Fonio (Digitaria spp.)', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1008500000', 'Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa)', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1008600000', 'Triticale', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1008900000', 'Other cereals', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1101001000', 'Of wheat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1101002000', 'Of meslin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1102200000', 'Maize (corn) flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1102901000', 'Barley flour', '130.0%', 'EX'], ['1102902000', 'Rice flour', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1102903000', 'Rye flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1102909000', 'Other', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1103110000', 'Of wheat', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1103130000', 'Of maize (corn)', '130.3%', 'EX'], ['1103191000', 'Of barley', '130.0%', 'EX'], ['1103192000', 'Of oats', '277.4%', 'EX'], ['1103193000', 'Of rice', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1103199000', 'Other', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1103201000', 'Of wheat', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1103202000', 'Of rice', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1103203000', 'Of barley', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1103209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1104120000', 'Of oats', '277.4%', 'EX'], ['1104191000', 'Of rice', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1104192000', 'Of barley', '116.5%', 'EX'], ['1104199000', 'Other', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1104220000', 'Of oats', '277.4%', 'EX'], ['1104230000', 'Of maize (corn)', '133.6%', 'EX'], ['1104291000', 'Of coicis semen', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1104292000', 'Of barley', '63.0%', 'EX'], ['1104299000', 'Other', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1104301000', 'Of rice', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1104309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1105100000', 'Flour, meal and powder', '243.2%', 'EX'], ['1105200000', 'Flakes, granules and pellets', '243.2%', 'EX'], ['1106100000', 'Of the dried leguminous vegetables\nof heading 07.13', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1106201000', 'Of arrow roots', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1106209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1106300000', 'Of the products of Chapter 8', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1107100000', 'Not roasted', '134.5%', 'EX'], ['1107201000', 'Smoked', '134.5%', 'EX'], ['1107209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1108110000', 'Wheat starch', '40.7%', 'E15'], ['1108121000', 'For food', '180.8%', 'EX'], ['1108129000', 'Other', '180.8%', 'EX'], ['1108130000', 'Potato starch', '364.0%', 'EX'], ['1108141000', 'For food', '455.0%', 'EX'], ['1108149000', 'Other', '455.0%', 'EX'], ['1108191000', 'Of sweet potato', '192.9%', 'EX'], ['1108199000', 'Other', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1108200000', 'Inulin', '400.1%', 'EX'], ['1109000000', 'Wheat gluten, whether or not dried.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1201101000', 'For bean sprouts', '389.6% or\n765won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'SS'], ['1201109000', 'Other', '389.6% or\n765won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1201901000', 'For soya beans oil and oil cake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1201902000', 'For feeding', '389.6% or\n765won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1201903000', 'For bean sprouts', '389.6% or\n765won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1201909000', 'Other', '389.6% or\n765won/㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1202301000', 'In shell', '184.4%', 'EX'], ['1202302000', 'Shelled, whether or not broken', '184.4%', 'EX'], ['1202410000', 'In shell', '184.4%', 'EX'], ['1202420000', 'Shelled, whether or not broken', '184.4%', 'EX'], ['1203000000', 'Copra.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1204000000', 'Linseed, whether or not broken.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1205101000', 'Seeds for fodder planting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1205109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1205901000', 'Seeds for fodder planting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1205909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1206000000', 'Sunflower seeds, whether or not\nbroken.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207100000', 'Palm nuts and kernels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207210000', 'Seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207291000', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207300000', 'Castor oil seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207400000', 'Sesamum seeds', '504% or\n5,328won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1207500000', 'Mustard seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207600000', 'Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius)\nseeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207700000', 'Melon seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207910000', 'Poppy seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207991000', 'Perilla seeds', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1207992000', 'Shea nuts (Karite nuts)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1207999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1208100000', 'Of soya beans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1208900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209100000', 'Sugar beet seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209210000', 'Lucerne(alfalfa) seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209220000', 'Clover (Trifolium spp.) seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209230000', 'Fescue seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209240000', 'Kentucky blue grass (Poa pratensis\nL.) seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209250000', 'Rye grass (Lolium multiflorum\nLam., Lolium perenne L.) seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209291000', 'Lupine seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209292000', 'Sudan grass seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209293000', 'Orchard grass seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209294000', 'Timothy grass seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209300000', 'Seeds of herbaceous plants cultivated\nprincipally for their flowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209911010', 'Onion seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209912000', 'Radish seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209913000', 'Seeds of chili peppers or sweet\npeppers (Capsicum annuum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209914000', 'Cabbage seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209915000', 'Tomato seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209991010', 'Seeds of oak', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209992000', 'Seeds of fruit trees', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209993000', 'Tobacco seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209994000', 'Lawn seed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1209999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1210100000', 'Hop cones, neither ground nor\npowdered nor in the form of pellets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1210201000', 'Hop cones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1210202000', 'Lupulin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211201110', 'Wild-simulated ginseng', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201190', 'Other', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201211', 'Major roots', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201219', 'Other', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201291', 'Major roots', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201299', 'Other', '178.2%', 'EX'], ['1211201311', 'Major roots', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211201319', 'Other', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211201391', 'Major roots', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211201399', 'Other', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211202110', 'Powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211202120', 'Tablet or capsule', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1211202190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211202210', 'Powder', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211202220', 'Tablet or capsule', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211202290', 'Other', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211203100', 'Leaves and stems of ginseng', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211203200', 'Ginseng seed', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211209300', 'Fresh, chilled or dried', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1211209900', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['1211301000', 'Fresh, chilled or dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211401000', 'Fresh, chilled or dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211501000', 'Fresh, chilled or dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901100', 'Aconiti tuber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901200', 'Coptidis rhizoma', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901300', 'Polygalae radix', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901400', 'Fritillariae roylei bulbus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901500', 'Eucommiae cortex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901600', 'Liquorice roots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901700', 'Amomi semen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901800', 'Zizyphi semen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901910', 'Longanae arillus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901920', 'Crataegi fructus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901930', 'Nelumbo semen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901940', 'Pepper mint', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901950', 'Japanese pepper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901960', 'Dried platycodon grandiflorum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901970', 'Barbary wolfberry fruit (Lycium\nchinese Mill)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901980', 'Chinese magnolia fruit (Schisandra\nchinensis Baill)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901991', 'Quisqualis fructus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901992', "Wilford's swallow-wort", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901993', 'Polygoni Multiflori Radix', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211901999', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1211909010', 'Edible', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['1211909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212211010', 'Dried', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212211020', 'Chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212211030', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212212010', 'Dried', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['1212212020', 'Salted', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['1212212030', 'Chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212212040', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212212090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212213010', 'Dried', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212213020', 'Chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212213030', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212213090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212214010', 'Fresh', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212214020', 'Chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212214030', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212214090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212215010', 'Salted', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212215020', 'Chilled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212215030', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212215090', 'Other', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212216010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212216090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217021', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217031', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212217039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218021', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218031', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212218039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212219011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212219019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212219091', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212219099', 'Other', '16.0%', 'RED'], ['1212291010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212291090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212292010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212292090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n16.0%', 'EX'], ['1212293010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212293090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212294010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212294090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212295010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212295090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212296010', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212296090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297021', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297031', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212297039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298021', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298031', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212298039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212299011', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212299019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212299091', 'Frozen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212299099', 'Other', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1212910000', 'Sugar beet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212920000', 'Locust beans(carob)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212930000', 'Sugar cane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212940000', 'Chicory roots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212992000', 'Tuber of kuyaku', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212993000', 'Pollen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212996000', 'Apricot, peach (including nectarine)\nor plum stones and kernels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1212999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1213000000', 'Cereal straw and husks, unprepared,\nwhether or not chopped, ground,\npressed or in the form of pellets.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1214101000', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1214109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1214901000', 'Fodder roots', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1214909011', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1214909019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1214909090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1301200000', 'Gum Arabic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1301901000', 'Oleoresins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1301902010', 'Shellac', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1301902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1301909000', 'Other', '3.0%', 'E10'], ['1302110000', 'Opium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302120000', 'Of liquorice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302130000', 'Of hops', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302140000', 'Of ephedra', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302191110', 'White ginseng extract', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1302191120', 'White ginseng extract powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302191190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302191210', 'Red ginseng extract', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1302191220', 'Red ginseng extract powder', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1302191290', 'Other', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['1302191900', 'Other', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['1302192000', 'Cashew nut shell liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302193000', 'Natural lacquer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199010', 'Saps and extracts of aloes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199020', 'Cola extract', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199031', 'Angelicae Gigantis Radix Extract\n(Angelica gigas, Angelica acutiloba)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199032', 'Schisandrae Fructus Extract\n(Schisandra chinensis)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199033', 'Paeoniae Radix Extract (Paeonia\nlactiflora, Paeonia japonica, Paeonia\nobovata)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199034', 'Cnidii Rhizoma Extract (Cnidium\nofficinale, Ligusticum chuanxiong)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199035', 'Astragali Radix Extract (Astragalus\nmembranaceus, Astragalus\nmongholicus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199091', 'Vanilla oleoresin or vanilla extract', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302199099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302200000', 'Pectic substances, pectinates and\npectates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302311000', 'Agar-agar in stripe form', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1302312000', 'Agar-agar, powdered', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1302319000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['1302320000', 'Mucilages and thickeners, whether or\nnot modified, derived from locust\nbeans, locust bean seeds or guar\nseeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1302390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1401101000', 'Bamboos, phyllostachys', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1401102000', 'Raw bamboos', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1401109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1401201000', 'Split or drawn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1401209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1401900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404200000', 'Cotton linters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404901000', 'Hard seeds, pips, hulls and nuts, of a\nkind used for carving (for example,\ncorozo)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404902010', 'Bark of paper mulberry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404903010', 'Leaves of quercus dentata', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404903020', 'Leaves of smilax china', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404904000', 'Vegetable materials of a kind used\nprimarily as stuffing or as padding\n(for example, kapok, vegetable hair\nand eel-grass), whether or not put up\nas a layer with or without supporting\nmaterial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404905000', 'Vegetable materials of a kind used\nprimarily in brooms or in brushes(for\nexample, broomcorn, piassava,\ncouch-grass and istle), whether or\nnot in hanks or bundles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404906010', 'Gall nuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404906020', 'Almond hulls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404906090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1404909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1501101000', 'Of an acid value not exceeding 1', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1501109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1501200000', 'Other pig fat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1501900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1502101010', 'Of an acid value not exceeding 2', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1502101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1502109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1502901000', 'Of bovine animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1502909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1503002000', 'Lard-oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1503009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1504101000', "Sharks' liver oil and its fractions", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1504109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1504200000', 'Fats and oils and their fractions, of\nfish, other than liver oils.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1504301000', 'Whale oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1504309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1505001000', 'Wool grease, crude', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1505009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1506001000', "Neat's foot oil and its fractions", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1506009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1507101000', 'For food', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1507102000', 'For manufacturing biodiesel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1507109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1507901010', 'For food', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1507901020', 'For manufacturing biodiesel', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1507901090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1507909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1508100000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1508901000', 'Refined oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1508909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1509100000', 'Virgin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1509900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1510000000', 'Other oils and their fractions,\nobtained solely from olives, whether\nor not refined, but not chemically\nmodified, including blends of these\noils or fractions with oils or fractions\nof heading 15.09.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1511100000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1511901000', 'Palm olein', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1511902000', 'Palm stearin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1511909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512111000', 'Sunflower-seed oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512112000', 'Safflower oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512191010', 'Sunflower-seed oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512191020', 'Safflower oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512199010', 'Sunflower-seed oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512199020', 'Safflower oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512210000', 'Crude oil, whether or not gossypol\nhas been removed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512291000', 'Refined oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1512299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513110000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513191000', 'Refined oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513211000', 'Palm kernel oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513212000', 'Babassu oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513291010', 'Palm kernel oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513291020', 'Babassu oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1513299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1514110000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1514191000', 'Refined oil', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1514199000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['1514911000', 'Other Rape oil or colza oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1514912000', 'Mustard oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1514991010', 'Other Rape oil or colza oil', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1514991020', 'Mustard oil', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1514999000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1515110000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515210000', 'Crude oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515300000', 'Castor oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515500000', 'Sesame oil and its fractions', '504% or\n9,648won/\n㎏,\nwhichever is\ngreater', 'EX'], ['1515901000', 'Perilla oil and its fractions', '18.0%', 'EX'], ['1515909010', 'Rice bran oil and its fractions', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1515909020', 'Camellia oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515909030', 'Jojoba oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515909040', 'Tung oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1515909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516101000', 'Beef tallow and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516102000', 'Whale oil and its fractions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516201010', 'Peanut oil and its fraction', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1516201020', 'Sunflower seed oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516201030', 'Rape or colza oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516201040', 'Perilla oil and its fraction', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['1516201050', 'Sesame oil and its fraction', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1516202010', 'Coconut (copra) oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516202020', 'Palm oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516202030', 'Maize oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516202040', 'Cotton seed oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516202050', 'Soya-bean oil and its fraction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1516202090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1517100000', 'Margarine, excluding liquid\nmargarine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1517901000', 'Imitation lard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1517902000', 'Shortening', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1517909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1518001000', 'Dehydrated castor oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1518002000', 'Epoxidised soya-bean oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1518009010', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1518009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1520000000', 'Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and\nglycerol lyes.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521101000', 'Carnauba wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521102000', 'Palm wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521901000', 'Spermaceti', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521902000', 'Beeswax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1521909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1522001000', 'Degras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1522009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1601001000', 'Sausages', '14.4%', 'EX'], ['1601009000', 'Other', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['1602100000', 'Homogenised preparations', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602201000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1602209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1602311000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1602319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1602321010', 'Samge-tangⓚ', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602321090', 'Other', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['1602329000', 'Other', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['1602391000', 'In airtight containers', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602399000', 'Other', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602411000', 'In airtight containers', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602419000', 'Other', '21.6%', 'EX'], ['1602421000', 'In airtight containers', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1602429000', 'Other', '21.6%', 'EX'], ['1602491000', 'In airtight containers', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['1602499000', 'Other', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['1602501000', 'In airtight containers', '57.6%', 'EX'], ['1602509000', 'Other', '57.6%', 'EX'], ['1602901000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1602909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1603001000', 'Meat extracts', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['1603002000', 'Meat juices', '24.0%', 'E20'], ['1603003000', 'Fish extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1603004000', 'Fish juices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1603009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604111000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604121000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604131000', 'In airtight containers', '16.0%', 'E10'], ['1604139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604141011', 'In oil', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['1604141012', 'Boiled', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604141019', 'Other', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604141021', 'In oil', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['1604141022', 'Boiled', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604141029', 'Other', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604141031', 'In oil', '20.0%', 'EX'], ['1604141032', 'Boiled', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604141039', 'Other', '20.0%', 'RED'], ['1604149000', 'Other', '20.0%', 'E10'], ['1604151000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604161000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604169000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604171000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604179000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1604181000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604189000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['1604191010', 'Saury', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604191020', 'Jack and horse mackerel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604199010', 'Jerk filefish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604199090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1604201000', 'Fish pastes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604202000', 'Fish marinade', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604203000', 'Fish sausages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604204010', 'Of crab flavor', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['1604204090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1604209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['1604310000', 'Caviar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1604320000', 'Caviar substitutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605101010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605101091', 'Red snow crab meat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605101099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605211000', 'Breaded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605219000', 'Other', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['1605290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605301000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605401000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605511000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605519000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605521000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605529000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605531000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605539000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605541010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605541090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['1605542010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605542091', 'Seasoned squid', '5.0% /', 'EX'], ['', '', '16.0%', ''], ['1605542099', 'Other', '5.0%', 'RED'], ['1605551000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605559000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'RED'], ['1605561010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605561090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605562010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605562090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605569010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605569090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605571000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605579000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1605581000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605589000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605591010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605591090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605592010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605592090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605599010', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605599090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1605611000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605621000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605629000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605631000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605639000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1605691000', 'In airtight containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1605699000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['1701121000', 'Of a polarization not exceeding 98.5°', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1701122000', 'Of a polarization exceeding 98.5°', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1701130000', 'Cane sugar specified in Subheading\nNote 2 to this Chapter', '3.0%', 'E0'], ['1701141000', 'Of a polarization not exceeding 98.5°', '3.0%', 'E0'], ['1701142000', 'Of a polarization exceeding 98.5°', '3.0%', 'E10'], ['1701910000', 'Containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['1701990000', 'Other', '30.0%', 'EX'], ['1702111000', 'Lactose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702119000', 'Lactose syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702191000', 'Lactose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702199000', 'Lactose Syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702201000', 'Maple sugar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702202000', 'Maple syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702301000', 'Glucose', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1702302000', 'Glucose syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702401000', 'Glucose', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1702402000', 'Glucose syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702500000', 'Chemically pure fructose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702601000', 'Fructose', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1702602000', 'Fructose syrup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1702901000', 'Artificial honey', '194.4%', 'EX'], ['1702902000', 'Caramel', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1702903000', 'Maltose', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1702909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1703101000', 'For use in manufacturing spirits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1703109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1703901000', 'For use in manufacturing spirits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1703909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704100000', 'Chewing gum, whether or not sugar-\ncoated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704901000', 'Liquorice extract, not put up as\nconfectionery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704902010', 'Drops', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704902020', 'Caramels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1704909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1801001000', 'Raw', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1801002000', 'Roasted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1802001000', 'Cocoa shells, husks and skins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1802009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1803100000', 'Not defatted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1803200000', 'Wholly or partly defatted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1804000000', 'Cocoa butter, fat and oil.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1805000000', 'Cocoa powder, not containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806100000', 'Cocoa powder, containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806201000', 'Chocolate and chocolate\nconfectionery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806209010', 'Cocoa preparation containing 50 %\nor more by weight of milk powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806311000', 'Chocolate and chocolate\nconfectionery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806321000', 'Chocolate and chocolate\nconfectionery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806901000', 'Chocolate and chocolate\nconfectionery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902111', 'Prepared dry-milk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902119', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902191', 'Of oatmeal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902199', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902210', 'Of barley flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902290', 'Other', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1806902910', 'Of malt extract', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1806902920', 'Food preparations of goods of\nheadings 04.01 to 04.04', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902991', 'Of oatmeal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902992', 'Of barley flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806902999', 'Other', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1806903010', 'Prepared foods obtained by the\nswelling or roasting of cereals or\ncereal product', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806903091', 'Rice in grain form', '6.4%', 'E5'], ['1806903099', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['1806909010', 'Cocoa preparation containing 50 %\nor more by weight of milk powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1806909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901101010', 'Prepared dry milk', '28.8%', 'EX'], ['1901101090', 'Other', '32.0%', 'EX'], ['1901109010', 'Of oatmeal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901201000', 'Of rice flour', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1901202000', 'Of barley flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901209000', 'Other', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1901901000', 'Malt extract', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['1901902010', 'Of a fat content, by weight, not\nexceeding 30 %', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['1901902020', 'Of a fat content, by weight,\nexceeding 30 %', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['1901909010', 'Oat meal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901909091', 'Of rice flour', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1901909092', 'Of barley flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1901909099', 'Other', '513.0%', 'EX'], ['1902111000', 'Spaghetti', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902112000', 'Macaroni', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902191000', 'Noodles', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1902192000', 'Chinese vermicelli', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1902193000', 'Naeng-myunⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902200000', 'Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked\nor otherwise prepared', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902301010', 'Ramenⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1902400000', 'Couscous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1903001000', 'Tapioca', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1903009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1904101000', 'Corn flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1904102000', 'Corn chip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1904103000', 'Puffed rice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1904109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1904201000', 'Of Musli type preparations', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['1904209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1904300000', 'Bulgur wheat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1904901010', 'Steamed or boiled rice', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['1904901090', 'Other', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['1904909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['1905100000', 'Crispbread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905200000', 'Gingerbread and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905310000', 'Sweet biscuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905320000', 'Waffles and wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905400000', 'Rusks, toasted bread and similar\ntoasted products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905901010', 'Bread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905901020', "Ship's biscuits", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905901030', 'Pastries and cakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905901040', 'Biscuits, cookies and crackers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905901050', "Bakers' wares of rice", '5.0%', 'E5'], ['1905901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905909010', 'Empty cachets of a kind suitable for\npharmaceutical use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['1905909020', 'Rice paper', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['1905909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001100000', 'Cucumbers and gherkins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001901000', 'Fruit and nuts', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['2001909010', 'Shallots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001909020', 'Tomatoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001909030', 'Cauliflower', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001909040', 'Sweet corn', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2001909050', 'Rakkyo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2001909060', 'Garlic', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['2001909070', 'Onions', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['2001909090', 'Other', '15.0%', 'EX'], ['2002100000', 'Tomatoes, whole or in pieces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2002901000', 'Tomato paste (of a soluble solid, of\n24 % or more)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2002909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003104000', 'Cultivated mushrooms (Agaricus\nbisporus)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003901000', 'Oak Mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003902000', 'Pine Mushrooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003903000', 'Truffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2003909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2004100000', 'Potatoes', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2004901000', 'Sweet corn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2004909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005101000', 'Pureed corn for infant', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005201000', 'Croquettes prepared from flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005400000', 'Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005511000', 'Of small green beans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005512000', 'Of small red beans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005591000', 'Of small green beans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005592000', 'Of small red beans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005600000', 'Asparagus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005700000', 'Olives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005800000', 'Sweet corn (Zea mays var.\nsaccharata)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2005910000', 'Bamboo shoots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005991000', 'Kim-chiⓚ', '16.0%', 'EX'], ['2005992000', 'Sauerkraut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005994000', 'Korean thistle [Cirsium setidens\n(Dunn) Nakai]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2005999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006001000', 'Marrons glacés', '24.0%', 'E20'], ['2006002000', 'Pineapples', '24.0%', 'E10'], ['2006003000', 'Ginger', '15.0%', 'EX'], ['2006004000', 'Lotus roots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006005000', 'Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006006010', 'Beans shelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006006090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006007000', 'Asparagus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006008000', 'Olive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006009010', 'Sweet corn (Zeamays var. Sac\ncharata)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006009020', 'Bamboo shoots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006009030', 'Of other vegetable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2006009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2007100000', 'Homogenised preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2007911000', 'Jams, fruit jellies and marmalades', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['2007919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2007991000', 'Jams, fruit jellies and marmalades', '24.0%', 'EX'], ['2007999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008111000', 'Peanut butter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008119000', 'Other', '51.1%', 'EX'], ['2008191000', 'Chestnuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008192000', 'Coconut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008200000', 'Pineapples', '36.0%', 'E10'], ['2008301000', 'Citrus junos', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008309000', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008400000', 'Pears', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008500000', 'Apricots', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2008600000', 'Cherries', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['2008701000', 'In airtight containers, added sugar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008800000', 'Strawberries', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2008910000', 'Palm hearts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2008930000', 'Cranberries (Vaccinium\nmacrocarpon, Vaccinium oxycoccos,\nVaccinium vitis-idaea)', '36.0%', 'E20'], ['2008971010', 'In airtight containers, added sugar', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['2008971090', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008972000', 'Fruit salad', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2008979000', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008991000', 'Grapes', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2008992000', 'Apples', '22.5%', 'EX'], ['2008993000', 'Popcorn', '36.0%', 'E10'], ['2008994000', 'Salted Japanese pepper', '36.0%', 'E10'], ['2008999000', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2009110000', 'Frozen', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['2009120000', 'Not frozen, of a Brix value not\nexceeding 20', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2009190000', 'Other', '27.0%', 'EX'], ['2009210000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009311000', 'Lemon juice', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2009312000', 'Lime juice', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2009319000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2009391000', 'Lemon juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009392000', 'Lime juice', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2009399000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2009410000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '40.0%', 'E10'], ['2009490000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2009500000', 'Tomato juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009610000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 30', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009690000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2009710000', 'Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2009790000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009810000', 'Cranberries (Vaccinium\nmacrocarpon, Vaccinium oxycoccos,\nVaccinium vitis-idaea) juice', '40.0%', 'E20'], ['2009891010', 'Peach juice', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['2009891020', 'Strawberry juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009891090', 'Other', '40.0%', 'EX'], ['2009892000', 'Juice of vegetable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009901010', 'Chiefly on the basic of orange juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009901020', 'Chiefly on the basic of apple juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009901030', 'Chiefly on the basic of grape juice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009902000', 'Of vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2009909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101111000', 'Instant coffee', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101121000', 'Preparations of instant coffee', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101129010', 'Of containing milk, cream or their\nsubstitutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101201000', 'Of containing sugar, lemon or their\nsubstitutes', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2101209011', 'Of packing with tea bag', '20.0%', 'E20'], ['2101209019', 'Other', '20.0%', 'E15'], ['2101209090', 'Other', '20.0%', 'RED'], ['2101301000', 'Of barley', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2101309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102101000', 'Brewery yeast', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102102000', 'Distillery yeast', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102103000', 'Bakery yeast', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102104000', 'Culture yeast', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102201000', 'Inactive yeasts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102202000', 'Nulookⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102203010', 'Of tablet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102203090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102204010', 'Of tablet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102204090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2102300000', 'Prepared baking powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103100000', 'Soya sauce', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['2103201000', 'Tomato ketchup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103202000', 'Tomato sauces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103301000', 'Mustard flour and meal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103302000', 'Prepared mustard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103901010', 'Bean paste', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['2103901020', 'Chinese bean paste', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2103901030', 'Gochujangⓚ', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2103901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103909010', 'Mayonnaise', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103909020', 'Instant curry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2103909030', 'Mixed seasonings', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2103909040', 'Maejooⓚ', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2103909090', 'Other', '36.0%', 'EX'], ['2104101000', 'Of meat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2104102000', 'Of fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2104103000', 'Of vegetable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2104109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2104200000', 'Homogenised composite food\npreparations', '24.0%', 'E15'], ['2105001010', 'Not containing cocoa', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2105001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2105009010', 'Not containing cocoa', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2105009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106101000', 'Bean-curd', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2106109020', 'Protein concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106109030', 'Textured protein substances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106901010', 'Cola base', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106901020', 'Beverage base of perfumed fruits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106902000', 'Sugar syrups, containing added\nflavouring or colouring matter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106903011', 'Ginseng tea', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106903019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106903021', 'Red ginseng tea', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['2106903029', 'Other', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['2106904010', 'Laver', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2106904090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909010', 'Coffee creamer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909021', 'Of a butter content, by weight, not\nexceeding 30 %', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2106909022', 'Of a butter content, by weight,\nexceeding 30 % but not exceeding\n70 %', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2106909023', 'Of a butter content, by weight,\nexceeding 70 %', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2106909030', 'Preparations for use in\nmanufacturing ice cream', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909040', 'Autolyzed yeast and other yeast\nextracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909050', 'Flavors in preparations', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2106909060', 'Acorn flour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909070', 'Preparations with a basis of aloe', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909080', 'Of preparations (other than those\nbased on odoriferous substances) of\ntypes used in the manufacture of\nbeverages with an alcoholic strength\nby volume exceeding 0.5 % vol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909091', 'Preparations of royal jelly and honey', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2106909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2201100000', 'Mineral waters and aerated waters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2201901000', 'Ice and snow', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2201909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2202101000', 'Coloured', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2202109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2202910000', 'Non-alcoholic beer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2202991000', 'Beverage based on ginseng', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2202992000', 'Beverage of fruit juice', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2202993000', 'Sikhyeⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2202999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2203000000', 'Beer made from malt.', '15.0%', 'E5'], ['2204100000', 'Sparkling wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204211000', 'Red wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204212000', 'White wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204221000', 'Red wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204222000', 'White wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204291000', 'Red wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204292000', 'White wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2204300000', 'Other grape must', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2205100000', 'In containers holding 2 ℓ or less', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2205900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206001010', 'Cider', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206001020', 'Perry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206002010', 'Cheongjuⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206002020', 'Yakjuⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206002030', 'Takjuⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206002090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2206009010', 'Wine cooler (added the product of\nheading 20.09 or 22.02, including\nbeing made of grapes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2206009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2207101000', 'Roughly distilled alcohol for\nbeverages', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2207109010', 'Fermented alcohol for manufacture\nof liquors', '216.0%', 'EX'], ['2207109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2207200000', 'Ethyl alcohol and other spirits,\ndenatured, of any strength', '8.0%', 'E5'], ['2208201000', 'Cognac', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208301000', 'Scotch whisky', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208302000', 'Bourbon whisky', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208303000', 'Rye whisky', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208309000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208400000', 'Rum and other spirits obtained by\ndistilling fermented sugarcane\nproducts', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208500000', 'Gin and geneva', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208600000', 'Vodka', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208701000', 'Ginseng wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208702000', 'Ogarpiⓚ wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208709000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208901000', 'Brandies other than that of\nsubheading 2208.20', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2208904000', 'Sojuⓚ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208906000', 'Kaoliang wine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208907000', 'Tequila', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2208909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['2209001000', 'Brewery vinegar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2209009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2301101000', 'Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or\nmeat offal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2301102000', 'Greaves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2301201000', 'Flours, meals and pellets of fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2301209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2302100000', 'Of maize (corn)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2302300000', 'Of wheat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2302401000', 'Of rice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2302409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2302500000', 'Of leguminous plants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2303100000', 'Residues of starch manufacture and\nsimilar residues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2303200000', 'Beet-pulp, bagasse and other waste\nof sugar manufacture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2303301000', 'For feeding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2303309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2304000000', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form\nof pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of soyabean oil.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2305000000', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form\nof pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of ground-nut oil.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306100000', 'Of cotton seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306200000', 'Of linseed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306300000', 'Of sunflower seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306410000', 'Of low erucic acid rape or colza\nseeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306500000', 'Of coconut or copra', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306600000', 'Of palm nuts or kernels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306901000', 'Of sesamum seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306902000', 'Of perilla seeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306903000', 'Of maize (corn) germ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2306909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2307000000', 'Wine lees; argol.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2308001000', 'Acorns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2308002000', 'Horse-chestnuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2308003000', 'Cotton seed hulls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2308009000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['2309101000', 'Dog food', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309102000', 'Cat food', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901010', 'For pigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901020', 'For fowls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901030', 'For fish', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901040', 'For bovine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901091', 'Of milk replacer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309901099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309902010', 'Chiefly on the basis of inorganic\nsubstances or minerals (excluding\nchiefly on the basis of micro-\nminerals)', '40.4%', 'E15'], ['2309902020', 'Chiefly on the basis of flavourings', '40.4%', 'E15'], ['2309902091', 'Automatic approval import items as\nof December 31,1994 :1. Peckmor,\nsessalom, calfnectar and pignectar of\nFCA Feed flavor starter (conc.)2.\nFCA Feed nectars (conc.)3. FCA\nFeed protanox 4. FCA Encila\n(conc.)5. FCA Sugar mate6. Poultry,\nfish, mineral, calf, hy sugar and\ncheese of FFI Ade (conc.)7. Pig, hog,\ncattle, dairy, beef and kanine of FFI\nKrave (conc.)8. Pig and fresh of FFI\nArome (cone., 2X)9. Pecuaroma-\npoultry Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309902099', 'Other', '40.4%', 'E15'], ['2309903010', 'Chiefly on the basis of antibiotics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309903020', 'Chiefly on the basis of vitamins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309903030', 'Chiefly on the basis of micro\nminerals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2309909010', 'Bait for fishing', '5.0%', 'E20'], ['2309909090', 'Other', '40.4%', 'E15'], ['2401101000', 'Flue-cured', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401102000', 'Burley', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401103000', 'Oriental', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401201000', 'Flue-cured', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401202000', 'Burley', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401203000', 'Oriental', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401301000', 'Stems', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401302000', 'Scraps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2401309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402101000', 'Cigar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402102000', 'Cheroot', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402103000', 'Cigarillos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402201000', 'Filter tip cigarettes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2402900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403110000', 'Water pipe tobacco specified in\nSubheading Note 1 to this Chapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403191000', 'Pipe tobacco', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403911000', 'Tobacco sheets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403991000', 'Chewing tobacco', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403992000', 'Snuff', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403993000', 'Tobacco extracts and essences', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403994000', "Tobacco holding in one's mouth(for\nexample, Snus)", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2403999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2501001010', 'Rock salt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2501001020', 'Sea salt made by the heat of the sun', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2501009010', 'Edible salt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2501009020', 'Pure sodium chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2501009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2502000000', 'Unroasted iron pyrites.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2503000000', 'Sulphur of all kinds, other than\nsublimed sulphur, precipitated\nsulphur and colloidal sulphur.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504101000', 'Natural graphite, crystalline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504102000', 'Natural graphite, amorphous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504901000', 'Natural graphite, crystalline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504902000', 'Natural graphite, amorphous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2504909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2505100000', 'Silica sands and quartz sands', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2505901010', 'Clayey sand', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2505901020', 'Felspathic sand', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2505901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2505909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2506101000', 'Containing less than 0.06 % of\nimpurities', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2506102000', 'Containing not less than 0.06 % but\nnot more than 0.1 % of impurities', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2506103000', 'Containing more than 0.1 % of\nimpurities', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2506201000', 'Crude or roughly trimmed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2506209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507001010', 'Not calcined', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507002010', 'Gairome clays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507002020', 'Kibushi clays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2507009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508100000', 'Bentonite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508300000', 'Fire-clay', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508401000', 'Acid clay', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508402000', "Decolourising earths and fuller's\nearth", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508501000', 'Andalusite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508502000', 'Kyanite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508503000', 'Sillimanite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508600000', 'Mullite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508701000', 'Chamotte', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2508702000', 'Dinas earth', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2509000000', 'Chalk.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2510101000', 'Natural calcium phosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2510109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2510201000', 'Natural calcium phosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2510202000', 'Natural aluminium calcium\nphosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2510209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2511100000', 'Natural barium sulphate (barytes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2511200000', 'Natural barium carbonate (witherite)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2512000000', 'Siliceous fossil meals (for example,\nkieselguhr, tripolite and diatomite)\nand similar siliceous earths, whether\nor not calcined, of an apparent\nspecific gravity of 1 or less.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513101000', 'Crude or in irregular pieces,\nincluding crushed pumice\n("bimskies")', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513201010', 'Emery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513201020', 'Natural corundum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513201030', 'Natural garnet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513202010', 'Emery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513202020', 'Natural corundum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513202030', 'Natural garnet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2513202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2514001000', 'Crude or roughly trimmed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2514009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2515111000', 'Marble', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2515112000', 'Travertine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2515121000', 'Marble', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2515122000', 'Travertine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2515200000', 'Ecaussine and other calcareous\nmonumental or building stone;\nalabaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516110000', 'Crude or roughly trimmed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516120000', 'Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516201000', 'Crude or roughly trimmed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516209000', 'Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516901000', 'Crude or roughly trimmed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2516909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517101000', 'Pebbles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517102000', 'Broken or crushed stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517200000', 'Macadam of slag, dross or similar\nindustrial waste, whether or not\nincorporating the materials cited in\nsubheading 2517.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517300000', 'Tarred macadam', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517410000', 'Of marble', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517491000', 'Of basalt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517492000', 'Of granite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2517499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2518100000', 'Dolomite, not calcined or sintered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2518200000', 'Calcined or sintered dolomite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2518300000', 'Dolomite ramming mix', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2519100000', 'Natural magnesium carbonate\n(magnesite)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2519901000', 'Fused or dead-burned magnesia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2519902000', 'Natural magnesium oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2519909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2520101000', 'Gypsum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2520102000', 'Anhydrite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2520201000', 'Specially calcined or finely ground\nfor use in dentistry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2520209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2521001000', 'Limestone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2521009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2522100000', 'Quicklime', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2522200000', 'Slaked lime', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2522300000', 'Hydraulic lime', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2523100000', 'Cement clinkers', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2523210000', 'White cement, whether or not\nartificially coloured', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2523290000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2523300000', 'Aluminous cement', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2523901000', 'Slag cements', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2523909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2524100000', 'Crocidolite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2524901000', 'Amosite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2524902000', 'Chrysotile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2524909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2525100000', 'Crude mica and mica rifted into\nsheets or splittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2525200000', 'Mica powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2525300000', 'Mica waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2526101000', 'Whether or not roughly trimmed or\nmerely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\nshape (including square)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2526109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2526200000', 'Crushed or powdered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2528001000', 'Natural sodium borates and\nconcentrates thereof(whether or not\ncalcined)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2528002000', 'Calcium borates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2528003000', 'Magnesium chloroborate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2528004000', 'Natural boric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2528009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529100000', 'Feldspar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529211000', 'Powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529221000', 'Powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529301000', 'Leucite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529302000', 'Nepheline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2529303000', 'Nepheline syenite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530101000', 'Vermiculite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530102000', 'Perlites and chlorites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530200000', 'Kieserite, epsomite (natural\nmagnesium sulphates)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530901000', 'Natural arsenic sulfides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530902000', 'Pyrolusite (manganese ore) suitable\nfor manufacturing dry batteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530903000', 'Strontianite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530904000', 'Cinnabar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530905000', 'Pyrophyllite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530906000', 'Zeolites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530907000', 'Alunites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530908000', 'Wollastonites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909010', 'Pottery stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909020', 'Sericites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909030', 'Earth colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909040', 'Natural micaceous iron oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909050', 'Natural cryolite and natural chiolite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909091', 'Natural calcium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2530909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601111000', 'Red haematite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601112000', 'Magnetite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601121000', 'Red haematite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601122000', 'Magnetite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2601200000', 'Roasted iron pyrites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2602000000', 'Manganese ores and concentrates,\nincluding ferruginous manganese\nores and concentrates with a\nmanganese content of 20 % or more,\ncalculated on the dry weight.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2603000000', 'Copper ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2604000000', 'Nickel ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2605000000', 'Cobalt ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2606000000', 'Aluminium ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2607000000', 'Lead ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2608000000', 'Zinc ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2609000000', 'Tin ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2610000000', 'Chromium ores and concentrates.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2611001000', 'Wolframite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2611002000', 'Scheelite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2611009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2612100000', 'Uranium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2612200000', 'Thorium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2613100000', 'Roasted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2613900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2614001000', 'Rutile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2614009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2615100000', 'Zirconium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2615901000', 'Niobium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2615902000', 'Tantalum ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2615903000', 'Vanadium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2616100000', 'Silver ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2616901000', 'Gold ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2616902000', 'Platinum ores and concentrates\n(including ores and concentrates of\nplatinum group)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2617100000', 'Antimony ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2617901000', 'Mercury ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2617902000', 'Germanium ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2617904000', 'Bismuth ores and concentrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2617909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2618000000', 'Granulated slag (slag sand) from the\nmanufacture of iron or steel.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2619001010', 'Blast furnace slag', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2619001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2619002000', 'Dross', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2619003000', 'Scalings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2619009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620110000', 'Hard zinc spelter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620210000', 'Leaded gasoline sludges and leaded\nanti-knock compound sludges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620300000', 'Containing mainly copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620400000', 'Containing mainly aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620600000', 'Containing arsenic, mercury,\nthallium or their mixtures, of a kind\nused for the extraction of arsenic or\nthose metals or for the manufacture\nof their chemical compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620910000', 'Containing antimony, beryllium,\ncadmium, chromium or their\nmixtures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2620990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2621100000', 'Ash and residues from the\nincineration of municipal waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2621900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701110000', 'Anthracite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701121000', 'Coking coal, heavy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701122000', 'Other coking coal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701129010', 'Containing a volatile matter less than\n22 % by weight (on a dry, mineral-\nmatter-free basis)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701190000', 'Other coal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701201000', 'Briquettes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701202000', 'Ovoids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2701209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2702100000', 'Lignite, whether or not pulverised,\nbut not agglomerated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2702200000', 'Agglomerated lignite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2703001000', 'Not agglomerated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2703002000', 'Agglomerated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2704001010', 'Of coal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2704001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2704002000', 'Semi-coke', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2704003000', 'Retort carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2705000000', 'Coal gas, water gas, producer gas\nand similar gases, other than\npetroleum gases and other gaseous\nhydrocarbons.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2706001000', 'Coal tars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2706009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707100000', 'Benzol (benzene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707200000', 'Toluol (toluene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707300000', 'Xylol (xylenes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707400000', 'Naphthalene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707500000', 'Other aromatic hydrocarbon\nmixtures of which 65 % or more by\nvolume (including losses) distils at\n250 °C by the ISO 3405 method\n(equivalent to the ASTM D 86\nmethod)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707910000', 'Creosote oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707991000', 'Solvent naphtha', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707992000', 'Anthracene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707993000', 'Phenols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2707999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2708100000', 'Pitch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2708200000', 'Pitch coke', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001010', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.796\nbut not more than 0.841 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001020', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.841\nbut not more than 0.847 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001030', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.847\nbut not more than 0.855 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001040', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.855\nbut not more than 0.869 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001050', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.869\nbut not more than 0.885 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001060', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.885\nbut not more than 0.899 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001070', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.899\nbut not more than 0.904 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001080', 'Of a specific gravity more than 0.904\nbut not more than 0.966 at 15℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2709002000', 'Crude oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710121000', 'Motor spirit', '3.0%', 'E3'], ['2710122000', 'Aviation spirit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710123000', 'Propylene tetramer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710124000', 'Naphtha', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710125000', 'Natural gas liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710129000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710191010', 'Jet fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710191090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710192010', 'Kerosene', '3.0%', 'E3'], ['2710192020', 'Jet fuel', '3.0%', 'E3'], ['2710192030', 'n-paraffin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710192090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710193000', 'Gas oils', '3.0%', 'E3'], ['2710194010', 'Light fuel oil (bunker A)', '3.0%', 'E0'], ['2710194020', 'Fuel oil (bunker B)', '3.0%', 'E0'], ['2710194030', 'Bunker C', '3.0%', 'E0'], ['2710194090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710195010', 'Raw oils', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710195020', 'Lubricating base oil', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710196000', 'Extender oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197110', 'Aviation engine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197120', 'Engine oil for automotive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197130', 'Engine oil for marine use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197210', 'Cylinder oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197220', 'Spindle oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197230', 'Gear oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197240', 'Turbine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197250', 'Refrigerating machine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197310', 'Compound oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197320', 'Liquid paraffin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197330', 'Automatic transmission fluid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197410', 'Anti-corrosive oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197420', 'Cutting oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197430', 'Cleansing oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197440', 'Mould release oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197450', 'Hydraulic brake oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197510', 'Process oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197520', 'Insulating oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197530', 'Heat treating oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197540', 'Heat transfer oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710197900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710198010', 'Containing aluminium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710198020', 'Containing calcium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710198030', 'Containing sodium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710198040', 'Containing lithium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710198090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710201010', 'Motor spirit', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710201020', 'Aviation spirit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710201030', 'Propylene tetramer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710201040', 'Naphtha', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710201050', 'Natural gas liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710201090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209110', 'Jet fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209190', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209210', 'Kerosene', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710209220', 'Jet fuel', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710209230', 'n-paraffin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209290', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710209300', 'Gas oils', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710209410', 'Light fuel oil (bunker A)', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209420', 'Fuel oil (bunker B)', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209430', 'Bunker C', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209490', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209510', 'Raw oils', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209520', 'Lubricating base oil', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2710209600', 'Extender oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209711', 'Aviation engine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209712', 'Engine oil for automotive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209713', 'Engine oil for marine use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209721', 'Cylinder oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209722', 'Spindle oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209723', 'Gear oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209724', 'Turbine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209725', 'Refrigerating machine oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209731', 'Compound oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209732', 'Liquid paraffin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209733', 'Automatic transmission fluid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209741', 'Anti corrosive oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209742', 'Cutting oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209743', 'Cleansing oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209744', 'Mould release oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209745', 'Hydraulic brake oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209751', 'Process oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209752', 'Insulating oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209753', 'Heat treating oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209754', 'Heat transfer oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209790', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209810', 'Containing aluminium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209820', 'Containing calcium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209830', 'Containing sodium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209840', 'Containing lithium as additive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209890', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710209900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710911010', 'Of motor spirit, aviation spirit and jet\nfuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710911020', 'Of naphtha and natural gas liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710912010', 'Of kerosene and jet fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710912090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710913000', 'Of gas oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710914010', 'Of light fuel oil (bunker A), fuel oil\n(bunker B) and bunker C', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710914090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710915000', 'Of raw oils, lubricating oil (other\nthan extender oil) and lubricating\nbase oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710991010', 'Of motor spirit, aviation spirit and jet\nfuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710991020', 'Of naphtha and natural gas liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710992010', 'Of kerosene and jet fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710992090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710993000', 'Of gas oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710994010', 'Of light fuel oil (bunker A), fuel oil\n(bunker B) and bunker C', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710994090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710995000', 'Of raw oils, lubricating oil (other\nthan extender oil) and lubricating\nbase oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2710999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711110000', 'Natural gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711120000', 'Propane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711130000', 'Butanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711141000', 'Ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711142000', 'Propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711143000', 'Butylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711144000', 'Butadiene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711210000', 'Natural gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2711290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712101000', 'Vaseline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712200000', 'Paraffin wax containing by weight\nless than 0.75 % of oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712901010', 'Slack wax and scale wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712901020', 'Microcrystalline wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712909010', 'Montan wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712909020', 'Peat wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712909030', 'Ceresin wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712909040', 'Synthetic paraffin wax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2712909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2713110000', 'Not calcined', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2713120000', 'Calcined', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2713200000', 'Petroleum bitumen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2713900000', 'Other residues of petroleum oils or\nof oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2714100000', 'Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2714901000', 'Bitumen and asphalt, natural', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2714902000', 'Asphaltites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2714903000', 'Asphaltic rock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2715001000', 'Cut-backs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2715002000', 'Emulsions or stable suspensions of\nasphalt, bitumen, pitch or tar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2715003000', 'Mastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2715009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2716000000', 'Electrical energy.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2801100000', 'Chlorine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2801200000', 'Iodine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2801301000', 'Fluorine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2801302000', 'Bromine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2802001000', 'Sulphur, sublimed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2802002000', 'Sulphur, precipitated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2802003000', 'Colloidal sulfur', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2803001000', 'Acetylene black', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2803009011', 'For manufacturing secondary\nbatteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2803009019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2803009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804100000', 'Hydrogen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804210000', 'Argon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804291000', 'Helium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804292000', 'Neon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804293000', 'Krypton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804294000', 'Xenon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804300000', 'Nitrogen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804400000', 'Oxygen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804501000', 'Boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804502000', 'Tellurium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804611010', 'Ingot or brick', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804611090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804701000', 'Yellow phosphorous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804800000', 'Arsenic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2804900000', 'Selenium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805110000', 'Sodium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805120000', 'Calcium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805301000', 'Cerium group', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805302000', 'Terbium group', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805303000', 'Erbium group', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805304000', 'Yttrium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805305000', 'Scandium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2805400000', 'Mercury', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2806100000', 'Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric\nacid)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2806200000', 'Chlorosulphuric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2807001010', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2807001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2807002000', 'Oleum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2808001010', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2808001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2808002000', 'Sulphonitric acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809100000', 'Diphosphorus pentaoxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809201010', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809202010', 'Metaphosphoric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809202020', 'Pyrophosphoric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2809202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2810001010', 'Diboron trioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2810001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2810002000', 'Ortho boric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2810003000', 'Meta boric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2810009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811111000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811120000', 'Hydrogen cyanide (hydrocyanic\nacid)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811191000', 'Hydrogensulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811192000', 'Hydrobromic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811193000', 'Sulphamic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811194000', 'Perchloric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811195000', 'Chloric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811196000', 'Hypophosphorous acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811197000', 'Phosphorous acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811198000', 'Arsenic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811210000', 'Carbon dioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811221000', 'White carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811229010', 'Silicagel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811229090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811291000', 'Carbon monoxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811292000', 'Nitrous oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811293000', 'Nitrogen dioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811294000', 'Arsenic trioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811295000', 'Arsenic pentoxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2811299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812110000', 'Carbonyl dichloride (phosgene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812120000', 'Phosphorus oxychloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812130000', 'Phosphorus trichloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812140000', 'Phosphorus pentachloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812150000', 'Sulphur monochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812160000', 'Sulphur dichloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812170000', 'Thionyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812901000', 'Boron trifluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812902000', 'Sulphur hexafluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2812909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813100000', 'Carbon disulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813901020', 'Phosphorous pentasulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813902010', 'Diarsenic pentasulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813903000', 'Silicon sulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2813909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2814100000', 'Anhydrous ammonia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2814200000', 'Ammonia in aqueous solution', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2815110000', 'Solid', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2815120000', 'In aqueous solution (soda lye or\nliquid soda)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2815200000', 'Potassium hydroxide (caustic potash)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2815301000', 'Sodium peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2815302000', 'Potassium peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2816101000', 'Magnesium hydroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2816102000', 'Magnesium peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2816400000', 'Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of\nstrontium or barium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2817001000', 'Zinc oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2817002000', 'Zinc peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2818101000', 'Sized grains', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2818109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2818200000', 'Aluminium oxide, other than\nartificial corundum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2818301000', 'Alumina gel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2818309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2819100000', 'Chromium trioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2819901010', 'Chromic oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2819901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2819902000', 'Chromium hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2820100000', 'Manganese dioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2820901000', 'Manganese oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2820902000', 'Manganic oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2820909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2821101000', 'Iron oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2821102000', 'Iron hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2821200000', 'Earth colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2822001010', 'Cobaltic oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2822001091', 'For manufacturing secondary battery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2822001099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2822002010', 'Cobaltous hydroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2822002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2823001000', 'Anatase type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2823009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2824100000', 'Lead monoxide (litharge, massicot)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2824901000', 'Red lead and orange lead', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2824909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825101000', 'Hydrazine hydrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825109010', 'Hydrazine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825109020', 'Inorganic salts of hydrazine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825109030', 'Hydroxylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825109041', 'Hydroxyl ammonium chloride\n(hydroxylamine hydrochloride)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825109049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825201000', 'Lithium oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825202000', 'Lithium hydroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825301000', 'Vanadic pentoxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825401000', 'Nickel oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825402000', 'Nickel hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825501000', 'Copper oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825502010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825502090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825601000', 'Germanium oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825602000', 'Zirconium dioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825701000', 'Molybdenum oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825702000', 'Molybdenum hydroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825800000', 'Antimony oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825901010', 'Calcium oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825901020', 'Tungsten oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825901030', 'Tin oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825902010', 'Calcium hydroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825902020', 'Manganes hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825902030', 'Tungsten hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825902040', 'Tin hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825903010', 'Nickel peroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2825909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826120000', 'Of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826191000', 'Calcium fluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826193010', 'Potassium hydrogen fluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826193090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826194000', 'Ammonium or sodium fluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826195000', 'Tungsten Hexafluoride(WF6)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826300000', 'Sodium hexafluoroaluminate\n(synthetic cryolite)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826901000', 'Artificial chiolite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826902000', 'Calcium fluorosilicate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826903000', 'Fluoroborates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826904000', 'Fluorophosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826905000', 'Fluorosulphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826906000', 'Fluorosilicates of sodium or of\npotassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2826909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827100000', 'Ammonium chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827200000', 'Calcium chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827310000', 'Of magnesium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827320000', 'Of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827350000', 'Of nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827391000', 'Of copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827411000', 'Copper chloride oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827412010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827412090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827491000', 'Chloride oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827492000', 'Chloride hydroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827511000', 'Sodium bromide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827512000', 'Potassium bromide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827591000', 'Calcium bromide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827601000', 'Iodide oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827609010', 'Potassium iodide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2827609090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828100000', 'Commercial calcium hypochlorite\nand other calcium hypochlorites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828901010', 'Sodium hypochlorite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828901020', 'Potassium hypochlorite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828902010', 'Sodium chlorite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828902020', 'Aluminium chlorite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2828903000', 'Hypobromites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829110000', 'Of sodium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829191000', 'Potassium chlorate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829192000', 'Barium chlorate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829901010', 'Sodium perchlorate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829901020', 'Ammonium perchlorate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829902010', 'Bromates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829902020', 'Perbromates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829902030', 'Iodates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2829902040', 'Periodates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2830101000', 'Sodium hydrogen sulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2830109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2830901000', 'Sulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2830902000', 'Polysulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2831101000', 'Sodium dithionite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2831102000', 'Sodium sulphoxy late (sodium form\naldehyde sulphoxylate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2831901000', 'Dithionites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2831902000', 'Sulphoxylates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832101000', 'Sodium bisulphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832201000', 'Ammonium sulphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832202000', 'Potassium sulphites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832203000', 'Calcium sulphites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832301000', 'Ammonium thiosulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832302000', 'Sodium thiosulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832303000', 'Potassium thiosulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2832309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833110000', 'Disodium sulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833191000', 'Sodium hydrogen sulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833192000', 'Disodium disulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833210000', 'Of magnesium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833221000', 'For manufacturing secondary\nbatteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833240000', 'Of nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833251000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833270000', 'Of barium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833291000', 'Iron sulphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833292010', 'For manufacturing secondary\nbatteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833292090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833293010', 'For manufacturing secondary\nbatteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833293090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833300000', 'Alums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833401000', 'Diammonium peroxodisulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833402000', 'Disodium peroxodisulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833403000', 'Calcium peroxodisulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2833409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2834101000', 'Sodium nitrite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2834109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2834210000', 'Of potassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2834291000', 'Barium nitrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2834299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835101010', 'Sodium hypophosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835101020', 'Calcium hypophosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835102000', 'Phosphites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835221000', 'Of mono-sodium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835222000', 'Of disodium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835240000', 'Of potassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835250000', 'Calcium hydrogenorthophosphate\n("dicalcium phosphate")', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835260000', 'Other phosphates of calcium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835291000', 'Aluminium phosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835299000', 'Other polyphosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835310000', 'Sodium triphosphate (sodium\ntripolyphosphate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835391000', 'Sodium metaphosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835392000', 'Sodium pyrophosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2835399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836200000', 'Disodium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836300000', 'Sodium hydrogencarbonate (sodium\nbicarbonate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836400000', 'Potassium carbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836500000', 'Calcium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836600000', 'Barium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836910000', 'Lithium carbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836920000', 'Strontium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836991010', 'Magnesium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836991020', 'Commercial ammonium carbonate\nand other ammonium carbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836991031', 'For manufacturing secondary\nbatteries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836991039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2836992000', 'Peroxocarbonates (percarbonates)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837111000', 'Sodium cyanides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837112000', 'Sodium cyanide oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837191010', 'Potassium cyanide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837191020', 'Copper cyanides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837191030', 'Zinc cyanide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837192000', 'Cyanide oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837201000', 'Ferrocyanides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837202000', 'Ferricyanides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2837209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2839110000', 'Sodium metasilicates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2839190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2839901000', 'Zirconium silicates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2839902000', 'Barium silicates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2839909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2840110000', 'Anhydrous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2840190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2840200000', 'Other borates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2840300000', 'Peroxoborates (perborates)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841300000', 'Sodium dichromate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841501000', 'Potassium chromate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841610000', 'Potassium permanganate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841691000', 'Manganites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841692000', 'Manganates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841693000', 'Permanganates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841700000', 'Molybdates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841800000', 'Tungstates (wolframates)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841901000', 'Stannates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841902010', 'Barium titannate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841902020', 'Strontium titannate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841902030', 'Lead titannate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841903000', 'Antimonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841904000', 'Ferrates and ferrites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841905000', 'Vanadates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841906000', 'Bismuthates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2841909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842101000', 'Aluminosilicates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842901000', 'Salts of selenium acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842903000', 'Double or complex salts containing\nsulphur', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842905000', 'Double or complex salts of selenium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2842909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843101000', 'Colloidal silver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843102000', 'Colloidal gold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843103000', 'Colloidal platinum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843211000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843291000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843301000', 'Potassium gold cyanide for making\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843901000', 'Amalgams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843909010', 'Platinum compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2843909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844101000', 'Natural uranium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844102000', 'Dispersions (containing natural\nuranium or natural uranium\ncompounds)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844201000', 'Uranium enriched in U235', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844202000', 'Dispersions (containing uranium\nenriched in U235, plutonium or\ncompounds of these products)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844301000', 'Dispersions (containing uranium\ndepleted in U235, thorium or\ncompounds of these products)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844401000', 'Radioactive elements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844402000', 'Radioactive isotopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844403000', 'Dispersions (containing radioactive\nelements, isotopes or compound)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2844500000', 'Spent (irradiated) fuel elements\n(cartridges) of nuclear reactors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2845100000', 'Heavy water (deuterium oxide)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2845901000', 'Heavy hydrogen (deuterium)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2845902000', 'Isotopes of carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2845909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2846100000', 'Cerium compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2846901000', 'Yttrium oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2846909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2847002000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2847009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2849100000', 'Of calcium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2849200000', 'Of silicon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2849901000', 'Complex carbides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2849909010', 'Tungsten carbides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2849909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2850001000', 'Hydrides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2850002000', 'Nitrides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2850003000', 'Azides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2850004000', 'Silicides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2850005000', 'Borides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852101000', 'Of subheading 2825.90, 2827.39,\n2827.49, 2827.60, 2830.90, 2833.29,\n2834.29, 2835.39, 2837.19, 2837.20,\n2841.50, 2842.10, 2842.90, 2843.90,\n2849.90, 2850.00 or of heading 2853', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852102000', 'Of heading 2931, Of subheading\n2918.11, 2932.99, 2934.99.9090,\n3201.90.2000, 3201.90.4000,\n3206.50, 3707.90, 3822.00.1091 or\n3822.00.2091', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E5'], ['2852103000', 'Of subheading 2934.99.2000,\n3822.00.1092 or 3822.00.2092', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852104000', 'Of subheading 3502.90 or 3504.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852105000', 'Of subheading 3822.00.101,\n3822.00.102, 3822.00.1093,\n3822.00.201, 3822.00.202 or\n3822.00.2093', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852106000', 'Of subheading 3822.00.1099 or\n3822.00.2099', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852901000', 'Of subheading 2830.90, 2835.39,\n2842.10.9000, 2849.90, 2850.00 or\n2853.90.2000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852902000', 'Of subheading 2842.10.1000,\n2934.99.2000, 2934.99.9090,\n3201.90, 3824.84 to 3824.88,\n3824.91, 3824.99.2100 or\n3824.99.2290 to 3824.99.9090', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['2852903000', 'Of caseinates and other casein\nderivatives of subheading\n3501.90(excluding those for\nmanufacturing coffee creamer)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2852904000', 'Of subheading 3502.90 or 3504.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2853100000', 'Cyanogen chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2853901000', 'Distilled or conductivity water and\nwater of similar purity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2853902000', 'Phosphides, whether or not\nchemically defined, excluding\nferrophosphorus.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2853909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901101000', 'Butanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901102000', 'Hexanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901103000', 'Heptanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901210000', 'Ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901220000', 'Propene (propylene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901230000', 'Butene (butylene) and isomers\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901241000', 'Buta-1,3-diene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901242000', 'Isoprene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901291000', 'Hexene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901292000', 'Octene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2901299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902110000', 'Cyclohexane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902191000', 'Ethylidene Norbornene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902200000', 'Benzene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902300000', 'Toluene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902410000', 'o-xylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902420000', 'm-xylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902430000', 'p-xylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902440000', 'Mixed xylene isomers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902500000', 'Styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902600000', 'Ethylbenzene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902700000', 'Cumene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902901000', 'Naphthalene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902902000', 'Methylnaphthalene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902903000', 'Methyl styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2902909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903111000', 'Chloromethane (methyl chloride)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903112000', 'Chloroethane (ethyl chloride)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903120000', 'Dichloromethane (methylene\nchloride)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903130000', 'Chloroform (trichloromethane)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903140000', 'Carbon tetrachloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903150000', 'Ethylene dichloride (ISO) (1,2-\ndichloroethane)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2903191000', '1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl\nchloroform)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903210000', 'Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2903220000', 'Trichloroethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903230000', 'Tetrachloroethylene\n(perchloroethylene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903310000', 'Ethylene dibromide (ISO) (1,2-\ndibromoethane)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903391000', 'Bromomethane (methyl bromide)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903392000', 'Bromoethane, excluding 1,2-\ndibromoethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903393000', 'Iodomethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903394000', 'Hexafluoroethane (CFC-116)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903395000', '1,1-difluoro ethane (HFC-152a)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903396000', '1,1,1,2-tetra fluoro ethane (HFC-\n134a)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903397000', '1,1,3,3,3-pentafluoro-2-\n(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903710000', 'Chlorodifluoromethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903720000', 'Dichlorotrifluoroethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903730000', 'Dichlorofluoroethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903740000', 'Chlorodifluoroethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903750000', 'Dichloropentafluoropropanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903760000', 'Bromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane and\ndibromotetrafluoroethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903770000', 'Other, perhalogenated only with\nfluorine and chlorine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903780000', 'Other perhalogenated derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903791100', 'Chlorofluoromethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903791210', 'Chlorotetrafluoroethanes(HCFC-\n124)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903791290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903791300', 'Chlorofluoropropanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903792000', 'Derivatives of methane, ethane or\npropane, halogenated only with\nfluorine and bromine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903810000', '1,2,3,4,5,6-\nHexachlorocyclohexane(HCH(ISO)),', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'including lindane(ISO, INN)', '', ''], ['2903820000', 'Aldrin(ISO), chlordane(ISO) and\nheptachlor(ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903830000', 'Mirex (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903890000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903911000', 'Chlorobenzene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903921000', 'Hexachlorobenzene(ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903922000', 'DDT(ISO)(clofenotane(INN), 1,1,1-\ntrichloro-2,2-bis(p-\nchlorophenyl)ethane)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903930000', 'Pentachlorobenzene (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903940000', 'Hexabromobiphenyls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903991000', 'Benzyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903992010', '1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903992090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903993000', 'Benzotrichloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2903999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904101000', 'Benzene sulphonic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904201000', 'Nitrotoluene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904209010', 'Nitrobenzene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904310000', 'Perfluorooctane sulphonic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904320000', 'Ammonium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904330000', 'Lithium perfluorooctane sulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904340000', 'Potassium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904350000', 'Other salts of perfluorooctane\nsulphonic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904360000', 'Perfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904910000', 'Trichloronitromethane (chloropicrin)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2904990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905110000', 'Methanol (methyl alcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905121000', 'Propan-1-ol (propyl alcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905122010', 'For making semiconductor', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905122090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905130000', 'Butan-1-ol (n-butyl alcohol)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905140000', 'Other butanols', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905161000', '2-ethylhexyl alcohol', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905169000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905171000', 'Dodecan-1-ol (lauryl alcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905172000', 'Hexadecan-1-ol (cetyl alcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905173000', 'Octadecan-1-ol (stearyl alcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905191000', 'Heptyl alcohols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905192000', 'Nonyl acohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905193000', 'Isononyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905194000', 'Pentanol (amyl alcohol) and isomers\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905199010', '3,3-dimethyl butan-2-ol (pinacolyl\nalcohol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905199020', '2-Propyl heptyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905199030', 'Isodecyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905221000', 'Geraniol, citronellol, linalool,\nrhodinol and nerol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905310000', 'Ethylene glycol (ethanediol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905320000', 'Propylene glycol (propane-1,2-diol)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905391000', '1,4-Butanediol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905392000', 'Neopentyl glycol', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2905399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905410000', '2-Ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-\n1,3-diol (trimethylolpropane)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905420000', 'Pentaerythritol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905430000', 'Mannitol', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2905440000', 'D-glucitol (sorbitol)', '5.0%', 'E15'], ['2905450000', 'Glycerol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905510000', 'Ethchlorvynol (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2905590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906110000', 'Menthol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906120000', 'Cyclohexanol, methylcyclohexanols\nand dimethylcyclohexanols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906131000', 'Sterols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906132000', 'Inositols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906191000', 'Borneol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906192000', 'Terpineols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906210000', 'Benzyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906291000', 'Phenylethyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906292000', 'Phenylpropyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906293000', 'Cinnamyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2906299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907111000', 'Phenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907112000', 'Salts of phenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907121000', 'Cresols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907122000', 'Salts of cresols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907131000', 'Octylphenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907132000', 'Nonylphenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907151000', 'Naphthols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907152000', 'Salts of naphthols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907191000', 'Thymol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907192000', 'Xylenols and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907211000', 'Resorcinol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907212000', 'Salts of resorcinol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907221000', 'Hydroquinone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907222000', 'Salts of hydroquinone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907231000', "4,4'-Isopropylidenediphenol\n(bisphenol A)", '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2907232000', "Salts of 4,4'-isopropylidenediphenol\n(bisphenol A)", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907291000', 'Catechol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2907299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908110000', 'Pentachlorophenol (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908191000', 'Chlorophenols, excluding\npentachlorophenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908192000', 'Tetra bromo bisphenol-A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908193000', 'Tribromophenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908910000', 'Dinoseb (ISO) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908920000', '4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol[DNOC(ISO)]\nand its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908991000', 'Naphthol sulphonic acids and their\nsalts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908992000', 'Phenol sulphonic acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908993000', 'Nitrated derivatives and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908994000', 'Nitrosated derivatives and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2908999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909110000', 'Diethyl ether', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909191000', 'Bis (chloromethyl) ether', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909192000', 'Methyl tertiary butyl ether', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909200000', 'Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\nethers and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909301000', 'Anisole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909302000', 'Anethole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909303000', 'Diphenylether', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909304000', 'Ambrette musk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909305000', 'Decabromodiphenyl oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909309010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909410000', "2,2'-Oxydiethanol (diethylene glycol,\ndigol)", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909430000', 'Monobutyl ethers of ethylene glycol\nor of diethylene glycol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909441000', 'Monomethyl ethers of ethylene\nglycol or of diethylene glycol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909449000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909491000', 'Triethylene glycol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909501000', 'Eugenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909502000', 'Isoeugenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909503000', 'Ether-alcohol-phenols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909601000', 'Alcohol peroxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909602000', 'Dicumyl peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909603000', 'Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2909609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2910100000', 'Oxirane (ethylene oxide)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2910200000', 'Methyloxirane (propylene oxide)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2910300000', '1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane\n(epichlorohydrin)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2910400000', 'Dieldrin (ISO, INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2910500000', 'Endrin (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2910900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2911001010', 'Acetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2911001020', 'Hemiacetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2911009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912110000', 'Methanal (formaldehyde)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912120000', 'Ethanal (acetaldehyde)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912191000', 'Citronellaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912192000', 'Citral', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912193000', 'Butanal (butyraldehyde, n-isomer)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912210000', 'Benzaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912292000', 'Phenylacetaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912293000', 'Cinnamaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912294000', 'Alpha-amylcinnamaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912295000', 'Cyclamen aldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912410000', 'Vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-\nmethoxybenzaldehyde)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912420000', 'Ethylvanillin (3-ethoxy-4-\nhydroxybenzaldehyde)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912491000', '3,4,5-trimethoxybenz-aldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912501000', 'Trioxan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912503000', 'Metaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2912600000', 'Paraformaldehyde', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2913000000', 'Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives of products of\nheading 29.12.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914110000', 'Acetone', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2914120000', 'Butanone (methyl ethyl ketone)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914130000', '4-Methylpentan-2-one (methyl\nisobutyl ketone)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914191000', '3,3-dimethyl-2-butanone\n(pinacolone)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914221000', 'Cyclohexanone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914222000', 'Methylcyclohexanones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914231000', 'Ionones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914232000', 'Methylionones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914291000', 'Jasmone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914310000', 'Phenylacetone (phenylpropan-2-one)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914401000', 'Diacetone alcohol (4-Hydroxy-4-\nmethylpentane-2-one)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914501000', 'Ketone-phenols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914610000', 'Anthraquinone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914620000', 'Coenzyme Q10 (ubidecarenone\n(INN))', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914691000', 'Derivatives of anthraquinone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914699010', 'Qunione-alcohols, quinonephenols,\nand quinone-aldehydes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914699090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914710000', 'Chlordecone (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914791000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2914799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915110000', 'Formic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915121000', 'Calcium formate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915122000', 'Ammonium formate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915131000', 'Methyl formate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915132000', '2-ethylhexylchloroformate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915210000', 'Acetic acid', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2915240000', 'Acetic anhydride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915291000', 'Calcium acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915292000', 'Sodium acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915293000', 'Cobalt acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915310000', 'Ethyl acetate', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['2915320000', 'Vinyl acetate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2915331000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915339000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2915360000', 'Dinoseb (ISO) acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915391000', 'Amyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915392000', 'Isoamyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915393000', 'Methyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915394000', 'Isobutyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915395000', '2-Ethoxyethyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915401000', 'Monochloroacetic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915500000', 'Propionic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915600000', 'Butanoic acids, pentanoic acids, their\nsalts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915701000', 'Palmitic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702010', 'Stearic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702020', 'Magnesium stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702030', 'Lead stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702040', 'Zinc stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702050', 'Barium stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702060', 'Cadmium stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702070', 'Calcium stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702080', 'Butyl stearate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915702090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915901000', 'Neodecanoilchloride and\npivaloylchloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915909010', '2-ethyl hexoic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2915909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916111000', 'Acrylic acid', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916121000', 'Ethyl acrylate', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2916122000', 'Methyl acrylate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916123000', 'Butyl acrylate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916124000', '2-ethyl hexyl acrylate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916131000', 'Methacrylic acid', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916141000', 'Methyl methacrylate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2916149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916151000', 'Oleic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916152000', 'Linoleic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916153000', 'Linolenic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916160000', 'Binapacryl(ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916201000', 'Cyclohexane carboxylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916202000', 'Cyclopentenyl acetic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916209010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916311000', 'Benzoic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916312000', 'Sodium benzoate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916313000', 'Benzyl benzoates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916319010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916319090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916321000', 'Benzoyl peroxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916322000', 'Benzoyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916341000', 'Phenylacetic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916342000', 'Salts of phenylacetic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916391000', 'Cinnamic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916399010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2916399090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917111000', 'Oxalic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917112000', 'Salts of oxalic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917113000', 'Esters of oxalic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917121000', 'Adipic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917122000', 'Salts of adipic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917123010', 'Dioctyl adipate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917123090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917131000', 'Azelaic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917132000', 'Sebacic acid, its salts and esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917140000', 'Maleic anhydride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917191000', 'Maleic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917192000', 'Succinic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917193000', 'Sodium succinate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917194000', 'Diethyl malonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917195000', 'Diisopropyl malonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917200000', 'Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\npolycarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917321000', 'Di-2-ethyl hexyl orthophthalate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2917329000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['2917331000', 'Dinonyl orthophthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917332000', 'Didecyl orthophthalates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917341000', 'Diheptyl orthophthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917342000', 'Diisodecyl orthophthalate', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2917343000', 'Dibutyl orthophthalates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917350000', 'Phthalic anhydride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917361000', 'Terephthalic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917369000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917370000', 'Dimethyl terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917391000', 'Isophthalic acid', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2917392000', 'Trioctyltrimellitate (T.O.T.M)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917393000', 'Trimellitic anhydride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2917399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918111000', 'Lactic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918112000', 'Salts of lactic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918113000', 'Esters of lactic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918120000', 'Tartaric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918131000', 'Salts of tartaric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918132000', 'Esters of tartaric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918140000', 'Citric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918151010', 'Calcium citrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918151090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918152000', 'Esters of citric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918161000', 'Gluconic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918162000', 'Salts of gluconic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918163000', 'Esters of gluconic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918170000', '2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid\n(benzilic acid)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918180000', 'Chlorobenzilate (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918191010', 'Malic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918192010', 'Salts of malic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918192090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918193010', 'Esters of malic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918193020', 'Methyl benzilate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918193090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918211000', 'Salicylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918212010', 'Sodium salicylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918212090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918221000', 'O-acetylsalicylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918222000', 'Salts of o-acetylsalicylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918223000', 'Esters of o-acetylsalicylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918231010', 'Methyl salicylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918231020', 'Ethyl salicylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918231090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918232000', 'Salts of other esters of salicylic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918291000', 'β-oxynaphthoic acid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918299010', 'Gallic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918299030', 'Parahydroxybenzoic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918299040', 'Salts and esters of gallic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918301000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918910000', '2,4,5-T (ISO) (2,4,5-\ntrichlorophenoxyacetic acid), its salts\nand esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918991000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2918999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919100000', 'Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919901011', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919901019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919901020', 'Glycerophosphoric acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919902000', 'Salts of phosphoric esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2919909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920111000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920191000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920210000', 'Dimethyl phosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920220000', 'Diethyl phosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920230000', 'Trimethyl phosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920240000', 'Triethyl phosphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920301000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920901010', 'Dimethyl sulfate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920901020', 'Diethyl sulfate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920902000', 'Of nitrous and nitric esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920903000', 'Of carbonic esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920909010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2920909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921111010', 'Methylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921111020', 'Salts of methylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921112010', 'Dimethylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921112020', 'Salts of dimethylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921113010', 'Trimethylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921113020', 'Salts of trimethylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921120000', '2-(N,N-\nDimethylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921130000', '2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921140000', '2-(N,N-\nDiisopropylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921192000', 'Diethylamine and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199010', 'Dimethyl laurylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199020', 'Chlormethine (INN) (bis(2-\nchloroethyl)methylamine)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199030', 'Bis (2-chloroethyl) ethylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199040', 'Trichlormethine (INN) (tris(2-\nchloroethyl)amine)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199050', 'Di-isopropylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199070', 'N,N-Dialkyl(methyl, ethyl, n-propyl\nor isopropyl) 2-chloroethylamines\nand their protonated salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921211000', 'Ethylenediamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921212000', 'Salts of ethylenediamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921221000', 'Hexamethylenediamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921222000', 'Hexamethylenediamine adipate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921291000', 'Diethylenetriamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921292000', 'Triethylene tetramine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921301000', 'Cyclohexylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921411000', 'Aniline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921412000', 'Salts of aniline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921421000', 'Nitrohalogenated derivatives of\naniline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921422000', '2,4,5-trichloroaniline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921429010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921429090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921431000', 'Para-toluidine-m-sulfonic acid and\nits salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921432000', '2-chloro-para-toluidine-5-sulfonic\nacid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921433000', '3-amino-6-chlorotoluene-4-sulfonic\nacid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921439010', 'Toluidines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921439091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921439099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921441000', 'Diphenylamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921449000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921451000', '1-naphthylamine-4-sulfonic acid and\nits salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921459010', '1-Naphthylamine (alpha-\nnaphthylamine) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921459020', '2-Naphthylamine (beta-\nnaphthylamine) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921459030', '2-naphthylamine-3,6,8-trisulfonic\nacid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921459090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921460000', 'Amfetamine (INN), benzfetamine\n(INN), dexamfetamine (INN),\netilamfetamine (INN), fencamfamin\n(INN), lefetamine (lNN),\nlevamfetamine (INN), mefenorex\n(INN) and phentermine (INN); salts\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921491000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921511000', "N-phenyl-N'-isopropyl-para-\nphenylenediamine", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921512000', "N-(1,3-Dimethyl butyl)-N'-phenyl-\npara-phenylenediamine", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921519010', 'o-phenylene diamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921519020', 'm-phenylene diamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921519030', 'p-phenylene diamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921519040', 'Diaminotoluenes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921519090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921591000', '3,3-Dichloro benzidine sulfonic acid\nsalts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599010', 'Benzidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599020', 'Benzidine dihydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599030', "4,4'diaminostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic\nacid and its salts", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599040', "Benzidine's salts other than\nbenzidine dihydrochloride", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599050', 'o-Tolidine and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2921599090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922111000', 'Monoethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922112000', 'Salts of monoethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922121000', 'Diethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922122000', 'Salts of diethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922140000', 'Dextropropoxyphene (INN) and its\nsalts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922150000', 'Triethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922160000', 'Diethanolammonium\nperfluorooctane sulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922171000', 'Methyldiethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922172000', 'Ethyldiethanolamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922180000', '2-(N,N-Diisopropylamino)ethanol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922191000', 'Arylethanolamines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922193010', 'N,N-Dimethyl-2 aminoethanol and\nits protonated salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922193020', 'N,N-Diethyl-2-aminoethanol and its\nprotonated salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922193090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922196000', 'Diethylaminoethanol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922211000', '7-amino-1-naphthol-3-sulphonic acid\n(gamma acid) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922212000', '8-amino-1-naphthol-3, 6-disulphonic\nacid (H acid) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922213000', '2-amino-5-naphthol-7-disulphonic\nacid (J acid) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922291000', 'Para-aminophenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922299010', 'Meta-aminophenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922299020', 'Ortho-aminophenol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922299030', 'Amino cresols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922299040', 'Phenetidines and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922310000', 'Amfepramone (INN), methadone\n(INN) and normethadone (INN);\nsalts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922392000', 'Amino anthraquinons and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922393000', 'Derivatives of amino anthraquinons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922411000', 'Lysine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922412000', 'Esters of lysine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922413000', 'Salts of lysine and its esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922421000', 'Glutamic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922422000', 'Sodium glutamate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922423000', 'Other salts of glutamic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922431000', 'Anthranilic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922439000', 'Salts of anthranilic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922440000', 'Tilidine (INN) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922491000', 'Glycine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922492000', 'Alanine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922493000', 'Leucine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922494000', 'Valine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922495000', 'Aspartic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922496000', 'Phenylglycine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922497000', 'Ethyl para amino benzoate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922501000', 'Serine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922502000', 'Para-amino salicylic acid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922503000', '1-p-nitrophenol-2-amino-1,3-\npropane diol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922504000', 'Dialphahydroxyphenylglycine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922509010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2922509090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923101000', 'Choline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923102000', 'Salts of choline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923201000', 'Lecithins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923202000', 'Other phosphoaminolipids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923300000', 'Tetraethylammonium\nperfluorooctane sulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923400000', 'Didecyldimethylammonium\nperfluorooctane sulphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2923900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924110000', 'Meprobamate (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924121000', 'Fluoroacetamide (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924122000', 'Monocrotophos (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924123000', 'Phosphamidon (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924191000', 'Dimethylformamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924192000', 'Dimethylacetamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924199010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924211000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924230000', '2-Acetamidobenzoic acid (N-\nacetylanthranilic acid) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924240000', 'Ethinamate (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924251000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924291010', 'Aminoacetanilide and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924291020', 'Acetaminophen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924291090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924292000', 'Aceto acetanilide and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924299010', 'Lidocaine hydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924299020', 'Iopromide, Iopamidol, Iomeprol,\nIohexol, Ioversol and Iodixanol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924299092', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2924299099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925111000', 'Saccharin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925112000', 'Salts of saccharin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925120000', 'Glutethimide (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925191000', 'Phthalimide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925199010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925210000', 'Chlordimeform (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925291000', 'Diphenyl guanidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925299010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2925299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926100000', 'Acrylonitrile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926200000', '1-Cyanoguanidine (dicyandiamide)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926300000', 'Fenproporex (INN) and its salts;\nmethadone (INN) intermediate (4-\ncyano-2-dimethylamino-4,4-\ndiphenylbutane)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926400000', 'Alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926901000', 'Acetonitrile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926902000', '1,4-diamino-2,3-\ndicyanoanthraquinon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926909010', 'Malono nitrile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926909091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2926909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927001100', '6-nitro-1-diazo-2-naphthol-4-\nsulfonic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927001900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927002100', 'Azodicarbonamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927002910', 'Azoisobutyronitrile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927002990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2927003000', 'Azoxy-compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2928001000', 'Phenylhydrazine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2928009010', 'Perillartine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2928009020', 'Methylethyl ketoxime', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2928009091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2928009099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929101000', 'Toluene diisocyanate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929102000', 'Diphenyl methane diisocyanate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929901000', 'Isocyanides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929903000', 'Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl) N,N-dialkyl (methyl,\nethyl, n-propyl or isopropyl)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'phosphoramidates', '', ''], ['2929904000', 'Diethyl-n,n-\ndimethylphosphoramidates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929905000', 'o-ethyl-2-diisopropylaminoethyl\nmethylphosphonite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929906000', 'N,N-Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl\nor isopropyl) phosphoramidic\ndihalides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2929909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930201010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930202010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930301000', 'Thiuram mono-sulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930302000', 'Thiuram di-sulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930303000', 'Thiuram tetra-sulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930400000', 'Methionine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930600000', '2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethanethiol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930700000', 'Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide\n(thiodiglycol (INN))', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930800000', 'Aldicarb (ISO), captafol (ISO) and\nmethamidophos (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930901000', 'Sodium-2-amino-4-\nmethylthiobutylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930902010', 'Thiourea', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930902020', 'Thiocarbanilide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930902091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930902099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930903010', 'Thioalcohols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930903020', 'Thiophenols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930903030', 'N,N-Diisopropyl-β-aminoethanthiol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930903040', 'N,N-Dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl\nor isopropyl) aminoethane-2-thiols\nand their protonated salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930904020', 'Thioaniline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930904090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930905010', '2-Chloroethylchloromethylsulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930905020', 'Bis (2-chloroethyl) sulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930905070', '1,5-Bis (2-chloroethylthio)-n-\npentane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930905090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930906000', '[S-2-(dialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl\nor isopropyl)amino) ethyl] hydrogen\nalkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl)phosphonothioates and\ntheir O-alkyl (≤C10, including\ncycloalkyl) esters; alkylated or\nprotonated salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930907000', 'O,O-Diethyl s-[2-(diethylamino)\nethyl] phosphorothioate and its\nalkylated or protonated salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930908000', 'O-Ehtyl, S-phenyl\nethylphosphonothiolothionate\n(fonofos)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909010', 'Thioacids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909020', 'Isothiocyanates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909030', 'Cysteine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909040', 'Cystine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909050', 'Glutathion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909060', '8-Chloro-6-tosylotinic acid ethyl\nester', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909070', 'Compounds containing a phosphorus\natom to which is bonded one methyl,\nethyl, n-propyl or isopropyl group\nbut not further carbon atoms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909080', 'Dithiocarbonates (xanthates)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2930909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931100000', 'Tetramethyl lead and tetraethyl lead', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931200000', 'Tributyltin compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931310000', 'Dimethyl methylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931320000', 'Dimethyl propylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931330000', 'Diethyl ethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931340000', 'Sodium 3-(trihydroxysilyl)propyl\nmethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931350000', '2,4,6-Tripropyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-\ntrioxatriphosphinane 2,4,6-trioxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931360000', '(5-Ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl methyl\nmethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931370000', 'Bis[(5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl]\nmethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931380000', 'Salt of methylphosphonic acid and\n(aminoiminomethyl)urea (1 : 1)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931901010', '2-Chlorovinyldichloroarsine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931901020', 'Bis (2-chlorovinyl) chloroarsine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931901030', 'Tris (2-chlorovinyl) arsine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931901091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931901099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902100', '[O-2-(dialkyl(methyl,ethyl, n-propyl\nor isopropyl)amino)ethyl]hydrogen\nalkyl (methyl,ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl) phosphonites and their O-\nalkyl (≤C10, including\ncycloalkyl)esters; alkylated or\nprotonated salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902200', 'O-Isopropyl\nmethylphosphonochloridate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902300', 'O-Pinacolyl\nmethylphosphonochloridate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902400', 'O-Alkyl (≤C10, including\ncycloalkyl) alkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-\npropyl or isopropyl)\nphosphonofluoridates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902500', 'O-Alkyl (≤C10, including\ncycloalkyl) N,N-dialkyl (methyl,\nethyl, n-propyl or isopropyl)\nphosphoramidocyanidates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902913', 'Diethyl methylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902914', 'Dimethyl ethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902915', 'Other, material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902919', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902991', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals(registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931902999', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931903010', 'Alkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl)phosphonyl difluorides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931904030', 'Ethyl phosphonyl dichloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931904090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931909010', 'Dibutyl tin oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931909020', 'Diethyl aluminium chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931909091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2931909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932110000', 'Tetrahydrofuran', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932120000', '2-Furaldehyde (furfuraldehyde)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932131000', 'Furfuryl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932132000', 'Tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932140000', 'Sucralose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932191000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932201010', 'Coumarin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932201020', 'Methylcoumarins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932201030', 'Ethylcoumarins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209010', 'Nonalactone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209020', 'Undecalactone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209030', 'Butyrolactone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209040', 'Santonin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209050', 'Phenolphthalein', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209060', 'Glucuronolactone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209070', 'Dehydracetic acid and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209080', 'Acetyl ketene (diketene)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932209099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932910000', 'Isosafrole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932920000', '1-(1,3-Benzodioxol-5-yl)propane-2-\none', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932930000', 'Piperonal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932940000', 'Safrole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932950000', 'Tetrahydrocannabinols (all isomers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932991000', 'Dioxanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932992000', 'Benzofuran (coumarone)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932993000', 'Cineole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932999010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2932999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933111000', 'Methylene bis(1-phenyl-2,3-\ndimethyl-4-methylamino pyra\nzolone-5)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933119010', 'Phenazone (antipyrin)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933119030', 'Sulpyrine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933119040', 'Isopropyl antipyrin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933119091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933119099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933191000', 'Pyrazolone and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933199010', 'Phenyl butazone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933199020', 'Pyrazolate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933199091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933199099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933211000', 'Hydantoin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933212000', 'Derivatives of hydantoin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933291000', 'Lysidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933299010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933311000', 'Pyridine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933312000', 'Salts of pyridine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933321000', 'Piperidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933329000', 'Salts of piperidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933330000', 'Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN),\nbezitramide (INN), bromazepam\n(INN), difenoxin (INN),\ndiphenoxylate (INN) dipipanone\n(INN), fentanyl (INN),\nketobemidone (INN),\nmethylphenidate (INN), pentazocine\n(INN), pethidine (INN), pethidine\n(INN) intermediate A, phencyclidine\n(INN) (PCP), phenoperidine (INN),\npipradrol (INN), piritramide (INN),\npropiram (INN) and trimeperidine\n(INN); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933391000', 'Isonicotinic acid hydrazide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933393000', '3-Hydroxy-1-methylpiperidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933394000', '3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933395000', 'Quinuclidin-3-ol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933399010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933399090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933410000', 'Levorphanol (INN) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933491000', 'Pyrvinium pamoate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933499010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933499090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933520000', 'Malonylurea (barbituric acid) and its\nsalts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933530000', 'Allobarbital (INN), amobarbital\n(INN), barbital (INN), butalbital\n(INN), butobarbital, cyclobarbital\n(INN), methylphenobarbital (INN),\npentobarbital (INN), phenobarbital\n(INN), secbutabarbital (INN),\nsecobarbital (INN) and vinylbital\n(INN); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933540000', 'Other derivatives of malonylurea\n(barbituric acid); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933550000', 'Loprazolam (INN), mecloqualone\n(INN), methaqualone (INN) and\nzipeprol (INN); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933591100', '5-fluorouracil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933591910', 'Pyrimidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933591991', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'Chemicals Management Act)', '', ''], ['2933591999', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933592010', 'Piperazine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933592020', 'Piperazine citrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933592040', '1-amino-4-methylpiperazine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933592090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933610000', 'Melamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933691000', 'Cyanuric chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933692000', 'Hexamethylene tetramine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933699010', 'Trimethylene trinitramine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933699091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933699099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933710000', '6-Hexanelactam (epsilon-\ncaprolactam)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933720000', 'Clobazam (INN) and methyprylon\n(INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933791000', 'Isatin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933792000', '2-hydroxyquinoline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933793000', '1-vinyl-2-pyrrolidone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933910000', 'Alprazolam (INN), camazepam\n(INN), chlordiazepoxide (INN),\nclonazepam (INN), clorazepate,\ndelorazepam (INN), diazepam (lNN),\nestazolam (INN), ethyl loflazepate\n(INN), fludiazepam (INN),\nflunitrazepam (INN), flurazepam\n(INN), halazepam (INN), lorazepam\n(INN), lormetazepam (INN),\nmazindol (INN), medazepam (INN),\nmidazolam(INN), nimetazepam\n(INN), nitrazepam (INN),\nnordazepam (INN), oxazepam\n(INN), pinazepam (INN), prazepam\n(INN), pyrovalerone (INN),\ntemazepam (INN) tetrazepam (INN)\nand triazolam (INN); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933921000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933991000', 'Indole and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933999010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2933999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934101000', 'Aminothiazole and its derivative', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934109010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934201000', 'Benzothiazole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934202000', 'Mercaptobenzothiazole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934203000', 'Dibenzothiazolyl disulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934209010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934301000', 'Phenothiazine (thiodiphenyl amine)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934910000', 'Aminorex (INN), brotizolam (INN),\nclotiazepam (lNN), cloxazolam\n(INN), dextromoramide (INN),\nhaloxazolam (INN), ketazolam\n(INN), mesocarb (INN), oxazolam\n(INN), pemoline (INN),\nphendimetrazine (INN),\nphenmetrazine (INN) and sufentanil\n(INN); salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934991000', 'Morpholine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934992000', 'Nucleic acids, their salts and\nderivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934993000', '7-Aminocephalosporanic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2934999010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '2.0%', 'E0'], ['2934999090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['2935100000', 'N-Methylperfluorooctane\nsulphonamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935200000', 'N-Ethylperfluorooctane\nsulphonamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935300000', 'N-Ethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)\nperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935400000', 'N-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-N-\nmethylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935500000', 'Other perfluorooctane\nsulphonamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935901000', '2-amino-n-ethylbenzene\nsulfonanilide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935902000', 'Sulfamethoxazole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935903010', 'Sulphathiazole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935909010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2935909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936210000', 'Vitamins A and their derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936220000', 'Vitamin B1 and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936230000', 'Vitamin B2 and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936240000', 'D- or DL-Pantothenic acid (Vitamin\nB3 or Vitamin B5) and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936250000', 'Vitamin B6 and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936260000', 'Vitamin B12 and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936271000', 'Ascorbic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936272000', 'Sodium ascorbate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936273000', 'Calcium ascorbate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936279000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936281000', 'Alpha-tocopherol acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936289000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936291010', 'Vitamin B9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936291090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936292000', 'Vitamins D and their derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936293000', 'Vitamin H and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936294000', 'Vitamins K and their derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936295000', 'Nicotinamide and its derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936901000', 'Provitamins, unmixed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2936909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937111000', 'Of subheading 2933.9 or 2934.9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937120000', 'Insulin and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937191000', 'Of subheading 2933.9 or 2934.9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937211000', 'Cortisone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937212000', 'Hydrocortisone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937213000', 'Prednisone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937214000', 'Prednisolone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937220000', 'Halogenated derivatives of\ncorticosteroidal hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937230000', 'Oestrogens and progestogens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937292000', 'Of subheading 2914.50.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937501000', 'Of subheading 2918.17, 2918.19 or\n2918.9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937502000', 'Of subheading 2934.9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937901000', 'Of subheading 2933.9 or 2934.9', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937902100', 'Epinephrine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937902910', 'Of subheading 2922.50', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937902990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937903000', 'Amino-acid derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2937909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938101000', 'Rutoside (rutin)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938102000', 'Derivatives of rutoside', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938901000', 'Digitalis glycosides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938902000', 'Glycyrrhizin and glycyrrhizates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938903000', 'Saponins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938904000', 'Stevioside', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2938909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939111000', 'Morphine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939112000', 'Ethylmorphine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939113000', 'Codeine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939114000', 'Concentrates of poppy straw\ncontaining not less than 50 % by\nweight of alkaloids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939200000', 'Alkaloids of cinchona and their\nderivatives; salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939300000', 'Caffeine and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939411000', 'Ephedrines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939419000', 'Salts of ephedrines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939421000', 'Pseudoephedrine (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939429000', 'Salts of pseudoephedrine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939430000', 'Cathine (INN) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939440000', 'Norephedrine and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939510000', 'Fenetylline (INN) and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939611000', 'Ergometrine (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939619000', 'Salts of ergometrine (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939621000', 'Ergotamin (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939629000', 'Salts of ergotamin (INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939631000', 'Lysergic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939639000', 'Salts of lysergic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939710000', 'Cocaine, ecgonine,\nlevometamfetamine, metamfetamine\n(INN), metamfetamine racemate;\nsalts, esters and other derivatives\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939791000', 'Nicotine and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939801010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0% / 2.0%', 'E0'], ['2939801090', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['2939802000', 'Histrinocotoxin and tetrodotoxin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2939809000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['2940001010', 'Galactose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2940001020', 'Sorbose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2940001030', 'Xylose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2940001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2940002010', 'Hydroxypropyl sucrose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2940002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941101000', 'Penicilline G potassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941109010', 'Penicilline G sodium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941109020', 'Penicilline V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941201000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941301000', 'Chlorotetracycline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941302000', 'Oxy-tetracycline hydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941303000', 'Chlorotetracycline hydrochloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941400000', 'Chloramphenicol and its derivatives;\nsalts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941501000', 'Erythromycin thiocyanate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941902000', '11-alpha-chloro-6-deoxy-6-\ndemethyl-6-methylene-5-\noxytetracycline-paratoluene\nsulfonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909010', 'Kanamycine sulfate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909020', 'Ledermycine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909030', 'Gentamycine sulfate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909040', 'Leucomycin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909091', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2941909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2942001000', 'Ketenes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2942009010', 'Copper acetoarsenite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['2942009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001201000', 'Gland extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001202000', 'Liver extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001203000', 'Gall bag extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001204000', 'Pancreas extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001205000', 'Stomach extracts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001901010', 'Of human body', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001902010', "Bear's gall", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001909010', 'Heparin and its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001909020', 'Of human body', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3001909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002110000', 'Malaria diagnostic test kits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002121000', 'Preparations of blood fractions, and\nmedications put up in measured\ndoses or in forms or packings for\nretail sale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129010', 'Antisera', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129021', 'Haemoglobin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129022', 'Globulins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129030', 'Thrombin and prothrombinase', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129040', 'Serums and blood plasma (excluding\nreproduced by synthesis)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002131000', 'Of subheading 2925.29, 2933.29,\n2934.99, 2937.90.1000,\n3002.90.3010 or 3907.20[excluding\nmaterials for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterials under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)]', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['3002139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002141000', 'Of subheading 2925.29, 2933.29,\n2934.99, 2937.90.1000,\n3002.90.3010 or 3907.20[excluding\nmaterials for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterials under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)]', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['3002149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002150000', 'Immunological products, put up in\nmeasured doses or in forms or\npackings for retail sale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002191000', 'Of subheading 2925.29, 2933.29,\n2934.99, 2937.90.1000,\n3002.90.3010 or 3907.20[excluding\nmaterials for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterials under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)]', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['3002199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002200000', 'Vaccines for human medicine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002301000', 'Vaccines against foot and mouth\ndisease', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002901000', 'Human blood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002902000', 'Animal blood (prepared for\ntherapeutic, prophylactic or\ndiagnostic uses)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002903010', 'Saxitoxin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002903020', 'Ricin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002904000', 'Microbial culture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002905000', 'Virus and anti-virus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002906000', 'Bacteriophage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002907000', 'Of subheading 2933.29[excluding\nmaterials for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterials under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)]', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002908000', 'Of subheading 3002.12.1000,\n3002.12.9021, 3002.12.9022,\n3002.12.9030', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3002909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003101000', 'Containing penicillines or derivatives\nthereof, with a penicillanic acid\nstructure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003102000', 'Containing streptomycins or their\nderivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003201000', 'Anti-tuberculosis preparations and\nanti-cancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003310000', 'Containing insulin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003391010', 'Preparations containing pituitary\n(anterior) hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003391020', 'Preparations containing pituitary\n(posterior) hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003395000', 'Preparations containing adrenal\ncortical hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003397000', 'Preparations containing male sex\nhormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003398000', 'Preparations containing estrogens\nand gestagens, progestins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003410000', 'Containing ephedrine or its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003420000', 'Containing pseudoephedrine (INN)\nor its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003430000', 'Containing norephedrine or its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003491000', 'Anti-cancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003600000', 'Other, containing antimalarial active\nprinciples described in Subheading\nNote 2 to this Chapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003901000', 'Anti-tuberculosis preparations,\nanthelmintic preparations and\nanticancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003909100', 'Preparations containing aspirin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003909200', 'Preparations containing anti-allergic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'agents', '', ''], ['3003909300', 'Preparations containing vitamins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003909400', 'Preparations containing antler', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003909500', 'Preparations containing ginseng', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3003909900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004101000', 'Containing penicillins or derivatives\nthereof, with a penicillanic acid\nstructure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004102000', 'Containing streptomycins or their\nderivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004201000', 'Anti-tuberculosis preparations,\nanthelmintic preparations and anti-\ncancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004209100', 'Preparations containing\nchloramphenicol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004209200', 'Preparations containing\nerythromycin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004209300', 'Preparations containing oxy-\ntetracycline', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004209400', 'Preparations containing kanamycin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004209900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004310000', 'Containing insulin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004320000', 'Containing corticosteroid hormones,\ntheir derivatives or structural\nanalogues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004391010', 'Preparations containing pituitary\n(anterior) hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004391020', 'Preparations containing pituitary\n(posterior) hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004392000', 'Preparations containing salivary\ngland hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004393000', 'Preparations containing thyroid and\nparathyroid hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004394000', 'Preparations containing anabolic\nsteroids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004395000', 'Preparations containing adrenal\nmedulla hormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004396000', 'Preparations containing male sex\nhormones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004397000', 'Preparations containing estrogens\nand gestagens, progestins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004410000', 'Containing ephedrine or its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004420000', 'Containing pseudoephedrine (INN)\nor its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004430000', 'Containing norephedrine or its salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004491000', 'Anti-cancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004492010', 'Preparations containing cocaine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004492020', 'Preparations containing alkaloids of\nrye ergot', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004492030', 'Preparations containing nicotine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004493000', 'Preparations containing atropine and\nhomatropine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004501000', 'Preparations containing vitamin A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004502010', 'Preparations containing vitamin B1', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004502090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004503000', 'Preparations containing vitamin C', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004504000', 'Preparations containing vitamin D', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004505000', 'Preparations containing vitamin E', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004506000', 'Preparations containing vitamin H', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004507000', 'Preparations containing vitamin K', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004600000', 'Other, containing antimalarial active\nprinciples described in Subheading\nNote 2 to this Chapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004901000', 'Anti-tuberculosis preparations,\nanthelmintic preparations and anti-\ncancer preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909100', 'Preparations containing aspirin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909200', 'Preparations containing anti-allergic\nagents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909300', 'Preparations containing antler', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909400', 'Preparations containing ginseng', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909500', 'Preparations containing royal jelly', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3004909900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005101000', 'Adhesive plasters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005901000', 'Waddings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005902000', 'Gauze', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005903000', 'Bandages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005904000', 'Prepared dressings and poultices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3005909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006101010', 'Sterile surgical catgut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006101020', 'Sterile suture materials (including\nsterile absorbable surgical or dental\nyarns)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006102000', 'Sterile tissue adhesives for surgical\nwound closure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006103000', 'Sterile laminaria and sterile\nlaminaria tents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006104000', 'Sterile absorbable surgical or dental\nhaemostatics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006105010', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006105020', 'Of knitted or crocheted fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006105090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006200000', 'Blood-grouping reagents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006301000', 'Opacifying preparations for X-ray\nexamination', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006302000', 'Diagnostic reagents (designed to be\nadministered to the patient)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006401000', 'Dental cements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006402000', 'Dental fillings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006403000', 'Bone reconstruction cements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006500000', 'First-aid boxes and kits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006600000', 'Chemical contraceptive preparations\nbased on hormones, on other\nproducts of heading 29.37 or on\nspermicides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006700000', 'Gel preparations designed to be used\nin human or veterinary medicine as a\nlubricant for parts of the body for\nsurgical operations or physical\nexaminations or as a coupling agent\nbetween the body and medical\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006910000', 'Appliances identifiable for ostomy\nuse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006921010', 'Skin and bone grafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006921090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006922010', 'Preparations of blood fractions, and\nmedications put up in measured\ndoses or in forms or packings for\nretail sale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006922020', 'Haemoglobin and globulins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006922031', 'Saxitoxin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006922032', 'Ricin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006922090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006923000', 'Of heading 30.03 or 30.04', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006924000', 'Of heading 30.05 or 30.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3006925000', 'Of subheading 3824.84 to 3824.88,\n3824.91 or 3824.99', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3101001010', 'Guano', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3101001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3101002000', 'Vegetable fertilisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3101003000', 'Fertilisers produced by the mixing or\nchemical treatment of animal or\nvegetable products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102101000', 'Agricultural fertilizers or for\nmanufacturing agricultural fertilizers', '2.0%', 'E3'], ['3102109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3102210000', 'Ammonium sulphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102291000', 'Double salts of ammonium sulphate\nand ammonium nitrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102292000', 'Mixtures of ammonium sulphate and\nammonium nitrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102300000', 'Ammonium nitrate, whether or not in\naqueous solution', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102400000', 'Mixtures of ammonium nitrate with\ncalcium carbonate or other inorganic\nnon-fertilising substances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102501000', 'Natural', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102600000', 'Double salts and mixtures of calcium\nnitrate and ammonium nitrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102800000', 'Mixtures of urea and ammonium\nnitrate in aqueous or ammoniacal\nsolution', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102901000', 'Double salts of calcium nitrate and\nmagnesium nitrate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3102909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103110000', 'Containing by weight 35 % or more\nof diphosphorus pentaoxide (P2O5)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103901000', 'Disintegrated (calcined) calcium\nphosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103902000', 'Calcium hydrogenorthophosphate\ncontaining not less than 0.2 % by\nweight of fluorine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103903000', 'Other calcium phosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103904000', 'Mixtures of phosphatic fertilisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3103909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104200000', 'Potassium chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104301000', 'Not more than 52 % by weight of\nK2O', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104901010', 'Not more than 30 % by weight of\nK2O', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3104909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105100000', 'Goods of this Chapter in tablets or\nsimilar forms or in packages of a\ngross weight not exceeding 10 kg', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105200000', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining the three fertilising\nelements nitrogen, phosphorus and\npotassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105300000', 'Diammonium\nhydrogenorthophosphate\n(diammonium phosphate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105400000', 'Ammonium\ndihydrogenorthophosphate\n(monoammonium phosphate) and\nmixtures thereof with diammonium\nhydrogenorthophosphate\n(diammonium phosphate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105510000', 'Containing nitrates and phosphates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105600000', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining the two fertilising\nelements phosphorus and potassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105901000', 'Fertilisers containing nitrogen and\npotassium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3105909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201100000', 'Quebracho extract', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201200000', 'Wattle extract', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201901010', 'Extracts from mangrove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201901020', 'Extracts from myrobolans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201901040', 'Extracts from gambier', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201902000', 'Tannins (tannic acids) and their salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201903000', 'Ethers or esters of tannins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3201904000', 'Other derivatives of tannins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202101000', 'Aromatic syntans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202102000', 'Alkylsulphonylchlorides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202103000', 'Resinic tanning products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202901000', 'Inorganic tanning products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202902000', 'Artificial bates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3202909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203001100', 'Natural indigo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203001910', 'Logwood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203001930', 'Chlorophyll', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203001990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203002010', 'Cochineal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203002030', 'Sepia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3203003000', 'Preparations based on colouring\nmatter of vegetable or animal origin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204111000', 'Intermediate products for disperse\ndyes (press cake)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204121000', 'Acid dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204122000', 'Mordant dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204130000', 'Basic dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204140000', 'Direct dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204150000', 'Vat dyes (including those usable in\nthat state as pigments) and\npreparations based thereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204160000', 'Reactive dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204170000', 'Pigments and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204191000', 'Organic solvent dyes and\npreparations based thereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204192000', 'Rapid dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204193000', 'Sulphide dyes and sulphide vat dyes\nand preparations based thereon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204200000', 'Synthetic organic products of a kind\nused as fluorescent brightening\nagents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204901010', 'For manufacturing organic light-\nemitting diodes(OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3204909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3205001000', 'Pigment plastic colour bases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3205009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206110000', 'Containing 80 % or more by weight\nof titanium dioxide calculated on the\ndry matter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206200000', 'Pigments and preparations based on\nchromium compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206411000', 'Ultramarine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206421000', 'Lithopones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206491000', 'Zinc grey', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206492000', 'Mineral black', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206493000', 'Coloured earths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206494000', 'Soluble vandyke brown', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206495000', 'Pigments based on cobalt\ncompounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206496000', 'Pigments and preparations based on\ncadmium compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3206500000', 'Inorganic products of a kind used as\nluminophores', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207100000', 'Prepared pigments, prepared\nopacifiers, prepared colours and\nsimilar preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207201000', 'Vitrifiable enamels and glazes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207202000', 'Engobes (slips)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207301000', 'Of gold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207302000', 'Of platinum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207303000', 'Of palladium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207304000', 'Of silver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3207400000', 'Glass frit and other glass, in the form\nof powder, granules or flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208101010', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208102000', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208103000', 'Solutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208201011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208201019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208201020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208201030', 'Solutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208202011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208202019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208202020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208202030', 'Solutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208901011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208901019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208901020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208901030', 'Solutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208909011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208909019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208909020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3208909030', 'Solutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209101011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209101019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209101020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209102010', 'Paints (including enamels)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209102020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209901011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209901019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209901020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209909011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209909019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3209909020', 'Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210001011', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210001019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210001091', 'Enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210001099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210002010', 'Oil varnishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210002020', 'Varnishes and lacquers based on lac,\nnatural gum or resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210002030', 'Varnishes based on bitumen,pitch or\nsimilar products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210002040', 'Liquid varnishes containing no\nsolvent', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210003010', 'Distempers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3210003090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3211000000', 'Prepared driers.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3212100000', 'Stamping foils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3212901000', 'Dyes and other colouring matter put\nup in forms or packings for retail sale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3212909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213101000', 'Oil colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213102000', 'Water colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213901000', 'Oil colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213902000', 'Water colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3213909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214101060', 'Based on rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214101080', 'Resin mastics and cements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214102000', "Painters' fillings", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3214900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215110000', 'Black', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215901000', 'Writing ink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215902000', 'Drawing ink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215903000', 'Copying ink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215904010', 'Of oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215904020', 'Of water', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215904030', 'Of oil and water', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215905000', 'Metalic ink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215906010', 'Of oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215906020', 'Of water', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215906030', 'Of oil and water', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3215909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301120000', 'Of orange', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301130000', 'Of lemon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301240000', 'Of peppermint (Mentha piperita)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301250000', 'Of other mints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301291000', 'Vanilla oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301292000', 'Citronella oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301293000', 'Cinnamon bark oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301294000', 'Cinnamon leaf oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301300000', 'Resinoids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301901000', 'Terpenic by-products of the\ndeterpenation of essential oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301902000', 'Concentrates of essential oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301903000', 'Aqueous distillates and aqueous\nsolutions of essential oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904100', 'Of opium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904200', 'Of liquorice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904300', 'Of hops', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904400', 'Of pyrethrum or of the roots of\nplants containing rotenone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904510', 'Of white ginseng', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904520', 'Of red ginseng', '603.4%', 'EX'], ['3301904530', 'Of other ginseng', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904600', 'Of cashew nut shell liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904700', 'Of natural lacquer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3301904800', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3302101000', 'Of a kind used in the food industries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3302102011', 'Compound alcoholic preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3302102019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3302102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3302900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3303001000', 'Perfumes and scents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3303002000', 'Toilet waters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304101000', 'Lipsticks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304201000', 'Eye shadows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304301000', 'Nail enamels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304911000', 'Face powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304912000', 'Baby powders (including talcum\npowder)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304991000', 'Skin care cosmetics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304992000', 'Make-up cosmetics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304993000', 'Baby cosmetics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3304999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3305100000', 'Shampoos', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3305200000', 'Preparations for permanent waving\nor straightening', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3305300000', 'Hair lacquers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3305901000', 'Hair rinses', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3305902000', 'Hair creams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3305909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306100000', 'Dentifrices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306201011', 'Not more than 70 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306201019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306201020', 'Of measuring per single yarn more\nthan 50 tex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306901000', 'Preparation for oral hygiene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3306902000', 'Preparations for dental hygiene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307101000', 'After-shaving lotions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307200000', 'Personal deodorants and\nantiperspirants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307301000', 'Perfumed bath salts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307302000', 'Other bath preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307410000', '"Agarbatti" and other odoriferous\npreparations which operate by\nburning', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307901000', 'Depilatories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307902000', 'Scented sachets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307903000', 'Contact lens solutions or artificial\neye solutions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3307909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3401111000', 'Medicated soaps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3401119000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3401191010', 'Laundry soaps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3401191090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3401192000', 'Paper, wadding, felt and nonwovens,\nimpregnated, coated or covered with\nsoap or detergent', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3401200000', 'Soap in other forms', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3401300000', 'Organic surface-active products and\npreparations for washing the skin, in\nthe form of liquid or cream and put\nup for retail sale, whether or not\ncontaining soap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402110000', 'Anionic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402120000', 'Cationic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402131000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402201000', 'Washing preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402202000', 'Cleaning preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402901000', 'Surface-active preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402902000', 'Washing preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3402903000', 'Cleaning preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403111000', 'Preparations for the treatment of\ntextile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403112000', 'Preparations for the treatment of\nleather or furskins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403191000', 'Cutting oil preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403192000', 'Bolt or nut release preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403193000', 'Anti-rust or anti-corrosion\npreparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403194000', 'Mold release preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403195000', 'Lubricating preparations used in\nwire-drawing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403911000', 'Preparations for the treatment of\ntextile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403912000', 'Preparations for the treatment of\nleather or furskins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403991000', 'Cutting oil preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403992000', 'Lubricating preparations used in\nwire-drawing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3403999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404200000', 'Of poly(oxyethylene) (polyethylene\nglycol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404901010', 'Of chloroparaffines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404901030', 'Of polyalkylenes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404901040', 'Of chemically modified lignite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3404902000', 'Prepared waxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405100000', 'Polishes, creams and similar\npreparations for footwear or leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405200000', 'Polishes, creams and similar\npreparations for the maintenance of\nwooden furniture, floors or other\nwoodwork', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405300000', 'Polishes and similar preparations for\ncoachwork, other than metal polishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405400000', 'Scouring pastes and powders and\nother scouring preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405901010', 'Based on chalk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405901020', 'Based on kieselguhr', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405901030', 'Based on diamond powder or dust', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3405909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3406000000', 'Candles, tapers and the like.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3407001000', 'Modelling pastes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3407002000', 'Preparations known as "dental wax"\nor as "dental impression compounds"', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3407003000', 'Other preparations for use in\ndentistry, with a basis of plaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501101000', 'For manufacturing coffee creamer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501901110', 'For manufacturing coffee creamer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501901190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501901200', 'Other casein derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3501902000', 'Casein glues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3502110000', 'Dried', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3502190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3502200000', 'Milk albumin, including concentrates\nof two or more whey proteins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3502901000', 'Albuminates and other albumin\nderivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3502909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3503001010', 'Gelatin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3503001020', 'Gelatin derivatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3503002000', 'Isinglass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3503003000', 'Other glues of animal origin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504001010', 'Peptones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504001020', 'Derivatives of peptones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504002010', 'Keratins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504002020', 'Nucleoproteids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504002030', 'Protein isolates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3504003000', 'Hide powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3505101000', 'Dextrins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3505102000', 'Soluble starch (amylogen)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3505103000', 'Roasted starches', '192.8%', 'EX'], ['3505104010', 'For food', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505104090', 'Other', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505105010', 'For food', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505105090', 'Other', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505109010', 'For food', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505109090', 'Other', '308.5%', 'EX'], ['3505201000', 'Starch glues', '100.6%', 'EX'], ['3505202000', 'Dextrin glues', '100.6%', 'EX'], ['3505209000', 'Other', '100.6%', 'EX'], ['3506101000', 'Based on rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506102000', 'Based on plastic (including artificial\nresins)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506911000', 'Optically clear free-film adhesives\nand optically clear curable liquid\nadhesives of a kind used solely or\nprincipally for the manufacture of\nflat panel displays or touch-sensitive\nscreen panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506991000', 'Vienna glues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506992000', 'Glues obtained by chemically\ntreating natural gums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506993000', 'Glues based on silicates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3506999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507100000', 'Rennet and concentrates thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507901010', 'Trypsin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507901020', 'Chymotrypsin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507901030', 'Alpha-amylase', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507901040', 'Lipase', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507902000', 'Pepsin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507903000', 'Malt enzymes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507904010', 'Papain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507904020', 'Bromelain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507904030', 'Ficin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507906010', 'Amylase', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507906020', 'Protease', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507907000', 'Pectic enzymes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3507909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3601001000', 'Black powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3601002000', 'Smokeless powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3602000000', 'Prepared explosives, other than\npropellent powders.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3603001000', 'Safety fuses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3603002000', 'Detonating fuses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3603003000', 'Percussion or detonating caps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3603004000', 'Igniters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3603005000', 'Electric detonators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3604100000', 'Fireworks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3604901000', 'Signalling flares', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3604909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3605001000', 'Yellow phosphorus match', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3605009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606100000', 'Liquid or liquefied-gas fuels in\ncontainers of a kind used for filling\nor refilling cigarette or similar\nlighters and of a capacity not\nexceeding 300㎤', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606901010', 'Meta fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606901020', 'Hexamine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606901030', 'Solidified alcohols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606902010', 'Lighter flints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606909010', 'Lighter flints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3606909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701100000', 'For X-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701200000', 'Instant print film', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701301000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701309100', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701309200', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701309930', 'For flat panel display (blank mask)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701309990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701911000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701919100', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701919200', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701919900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701991000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701999100', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701999200', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701999920', 'For aerial photography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3701999990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702100000', 'For X-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311110', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311120', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311210', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311220', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311910', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702311920', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702312000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702313000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321110', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321120', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321210', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321220', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321910', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702321920', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702322000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702323000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702329030', 'Instant print film', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702329090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391110', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391120', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391210', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391220', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391910', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702391920', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702392000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702393000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702411000', 'Cinematographic film', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702421000', 'Cinematographic film', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702422000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702423000', 'For printed circuit board', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3702429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702431010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702431020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702432000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702433000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702439000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702441010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702441020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702442000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702443000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702449020', 'For aerial photography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702449090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702521010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702521020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702523000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702530000', 'Of a width exceeding 16 ㎜ but not\nexceeding 35 ㎜ and of a length not\nexceeding 30 m, for slides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702541010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702541020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702542000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702543000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702549010', 'For photo-electric sound recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702549090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702551010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702551020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702553000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702559000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702561010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702561020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702562000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702569000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702961010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702961020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702963000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702969000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702971010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702971020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702973000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702979010', 'For photo-electric sound recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702979090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702981010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702981020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702982000', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702983000', 'For printed circuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3702989000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703101030', 'For photo-copying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703101040', 'For recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703109030', 'For photo-copying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703201000', 'For x-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703203000', 'For photo-copying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703204000', 'For recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703901000', 'For x-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703903000', 'For photo-copying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703904000', 'For recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3703909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3704001100', 'For cinematography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3704001200', 'For offset reproduction, producing\npostcard, illustrated postcard, cards\nand calendars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3704001300', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3704001900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3704002000', 'Photographic paper, paperboard and\ntextiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3705001010', 'For producing postcard, illustrated\npostcard, cards and calendars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3705001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3705009010', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3705009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706101000', 'Consisting only of sound track', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706102000', 'For news', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706103010', 'Rush', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706103020', 'Other negative joint-produced\ncinematography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706103030', 'Other positive joint-produced\ncinematography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706104000', 'Cinematograph film exposed\noverseas in the working of a motion\npicture by a republic of Korea\nproducer (only pictured overseas\nscenery or only appeared actors of\nRepublic of Korea in the film) and\ncinematograph film made by a\nKorean producer in Korea', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706105010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706105020', 'Positives', '5%,\n140won/m', 'E3'], ['3706106010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706106020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706901000', 'Consisting only of sound track', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706902000', 'For news', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706903010', 'Rush', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706903020', 'Other negative joint-produced\ncinematography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706903030', 'Other positive joint-produced\ncinematography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706904000', 'Cinematograph film exposed\noverseas in the working of a motion\npicture by a republic of Korea\nproducer (only pictured overseas\nscenery or only appeared actors of\nRepublic of Korea in the film) and\ncinmatograph film made by a Korean\nproducer in Korea', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706905010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706905020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706906010', 'Negatives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3706906020', 'Positives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707100000', 'Sensitising emulsions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707901010', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707901020', 'For manufacturing organic light-\nemitting diodes(OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707902100', 'For colour photography', '1.6%', 'E0'], ['3707902910', 'For x-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707902920', 'For graphic art', '1.6%', 'E0'], ['3707902990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707903100', 'For colour photography', '1.6%', 'E0'], ['3707903910', 'For x-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707903920', 'For graphic art', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707903990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707909100', 'Intensifiers and reducers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707909200', 'Toners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707909300', 'Clearing agents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707909400', 'Flash light materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3707909900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3801101000', 'For manufacturing secondary battery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3801109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3801200000', 'Colloidal or semi-colloidal graphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3801300000', 'Carbonaceous pastes for electrodes\nand similar pastes for furnace linings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3801900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3802100000', 'Activated carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3802901010', 'Activated diatomite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3802901020', 'Activated clays and activated earths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3802901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3802902000', 'Animal black (including spent\nanimal black)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3803000000', 'Tall oil, whether or not refined.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3804001000', 'Liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3804009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3805101000', 'Gum spirits of turpentine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3805102000', 'Wood turpentine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3805103000', 'Sulphate turpentine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3805900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806101000', 'Rosin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806102000', 'Resin acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806201000', 'Salts of rosin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806202000', 'Salts of resin acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806300000', 'Ester gums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806903000', 'Rosin spirit and rosin oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3806909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3807001000', 'Wood tar, wood tar oils and wood\ncreosote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3807002000', 'Wood naphtha', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3807003000', 'Vegetable pitch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3807009010', 'Pyroligneous liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3807009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808520000', 'DDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN)), in\npackings of a net weight content not\nexceeding 300 g', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808591000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808611000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808621000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808629000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808691000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808911000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808921000', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808931000', 'Herbicides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808932000', 'Anti-sprouting products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808933000', 'Plant-growth regulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808940000', 'Disinfectants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808991000', 'Rodenticides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3808999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3809100000', 'With a basis of amylaceous\nsubstances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3809910000', 'Of a kind used in the textile or like\nindustries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3809920000', 'Of a kind used in the paper or like\nindustries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3809930000', 'Of a kind used in the leather or like\nindustries', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['3810101000', 'Pickling preparations for metal\nsurfaces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3810109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3810901000', 'Fluxes and other auxiliary\npreparations for soldering, brazing or\nwelding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3810909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3811110000', 'Based on lead compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3811190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3811210000', 'Containing petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['3811290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3811900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812101000', 'Based on diphenylguanidine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812102000', 'Based on dithiocarbamates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812103000', 'Based on thiuram sulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812104000', 'Based on hexamethylene tetramine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812105000', 'Based on mercaptobenzothiazole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812106000', 'Based on dibenzothiazyle disulphide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812200000', 'Compound plasticisers for rubber or\nplastics', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['3812310000', 'Mixtures of oligomers of 2,2,4-\ntrimethyl-1,2-dihydroquinoline\n(TMQ)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812391000', 'Anti-oxidising preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3812392000', 'Other compound stabilisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3813001000', 'Preparations for fire-extinguishers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3813002000', 'Charges for fire-extinguishers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3813003000', 'Charged fire-extinguishing grenades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814001010', 'Mixtures of acetones, methyl acetate\nand methanol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814001020', 'Mixtures of ethyl acetate, butyl\nalcohol and toluene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814002110', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814002190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3814002900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815110000', 'With nickel or nickel compounds as\nthe active substance', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815121000', 'With platinium metal or platinium\ncompounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815122000', 'Of palladium or palladium\ncompounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815191000', 'With iron or iron compounds as the\nactive substance', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815192000', 'Of titanium or titanium compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815901000', 'Reaction initiators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3815909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3816001000', 'Refractory cements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3816002000', 'Refractory mortars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3816003000', 'Refractory concretes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3816009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3817000000', 'Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed\nalkylnaphthalenes, other than those\nof heading 2707 or 2902.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3818001000', 'Chemical elements doped for use in\nelectronics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3818002010', 'Wafers for making solar cells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3818002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3819001000', 'Hydraulic brake fluids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3819002000', 'Other prepared liquids for hydraulic\ntransmission', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3820001000', 'Anti-freezing preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3820002000', 'Prepared de-icing fluids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3821000000', 'Prepared culture media for the\ndevelopment or maintenance of\nmicro-organisms (including viruses\nand the like) or of plant, human or\nanimal cells.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001011', 'Of other plates, sheets, film, foil and\nstrip of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001012', 'Other articles of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001013', 'Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding\nor webs of cellulose fibres, in rolls or\nsheets referred to in Note 8 to\nChapter 48', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001014', 'Litumuth testing paper and other\nsimilar testing paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001020', 'Prepared, not on a backing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001091', 'Of other plates, sheets, film, foil and\nstrip of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001092', 'Other articles of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001093', 'Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding\nor webs of cellulose fibres, in rolls or\nsheets referred to in Note 8 to\nChapter 48', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822001099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002011', 'Of other plates, sheets, film, foil and\nstrip of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002012', 'Other articles of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002013', 'Paper,paperboard, cellulose wadding\nor webs of cellulose fibres, in rolls or\nsheets referred to in Note 8 to\nChapter 48', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002014', 'Litumuth testing paper and other\nsimilar testing paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002020', 'Prepared, not on a backing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002091', 'Of other plates, sheets, film, foil and\nstrip of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002092', 'Other articles of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002093', 'Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding\nor webs of cellulose fibres, in rolls or\nsheets referred to in Note 8 to\nChapter 48', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822002099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003041', 'Of 0 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003042', 'Of 1 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003043', 'Of 2 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003044', 'Of 3 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003045', 'Of 4 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003046', 'Of 5 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003047', 'Of 5.4 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003048', 'Of 6.5 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003049', 'Of 7 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003050', 'Of 8 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003051', 'Of 10 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003052', 'Of 20 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003053', 'Of 27 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003054', 'Of 30 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003055', 'Of 36 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003056', 'Of 40 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003057', 'Of 50 % rate in the Tariff Schedules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003058', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.1000,\n3706.10.5020 and 3706.90.6020', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003059', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.2000 and\n3706.90.2000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003060', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.3010,\n3706.10.4000, 3706.90.3010 and\n3706.90.4000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003061', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.3020 and\n3706.90.3020', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003062', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.3030 and\n3706.90.3030', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003063', 'Of subheadings 3706.10.5010 and\n3706.90.6010', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003064', 'Of subheading 3706.10.6010', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003065', 'Of subheading 3706.10.6020', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003066', 'Of subheadings 3706.90.1000 and\n3706.90.5020', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3822003067', 'Of subheading 3706.90.5010', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823110000', 'Stearic acid', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['3823120000', 'Oleic acid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823130000', 'Tall oil fatty acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823191000', 'Palmitic acids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823192000', 'Acid oils from refining', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3823199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823701000', 'Cetyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823702000', 'Stearyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823703000', 'Oleyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823704000', 'Lauryl alcohol', '3.0%', 'E3'], ['3823709010', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3823709090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824100000', 'Prepared binders for foundry moulds\nor cores', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824300000', 'Non-agglomerated metal carbides\nmixed together or with metallic\nbinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824400000', 'Prepared additives for cements,\nmortars or concretes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824500000', 'Non-refractory mortars and concretes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824600000', 'Sorbitol other than that of\nsubheading 2905.44', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824711000', 'Detergents based on\ntrichlorotrifluoroethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824719000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824720000', 'Containing\nbromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane or\ndibromotetrafluoroethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824730000', 'Containing\nhydrobromofluorocarbons (HBFCs)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824740000', 'Containing\nhydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs),\nwhether or not containing\nperfluorocarbons (PFCs) or\nhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not\ncontaining chlorofluorocarbons\n(CFCs)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824750000', 'Containing carbon tetrachloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824760000', 'Containing 1,1,1-trichloroethane\n(methyl chloroform)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824770000', 'Containing bromomethane (methyl\nbromide) or bromochloromethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824780000', 'Containing perfluorocarbons (PFCs)\nor hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but\nnot containing chlorofluorocarbons\n(CFCs) or hydrochlorofluorocarbons\n(HCFCs)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824790000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824810000', 'Containing oxirane (ethylene oxide)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824820000', 'Containing polychlorinated\nbiphenyls (PCBs), polychlorinated\nterphenyls (PCTs) or polybrominated\nbiphenyls (PBBs)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824830000', 'Containing tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)\nphosphate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824840000', 'Containing aldrin (ISO),\ncamphechlor (ISO) (toxaphene),\nchlordane (ISO), chlordecone (ISO),\nDDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN),\n1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-\nchlorophenyl)ethane), dieldrin (ISO,\nINN), endosulfan (ISO), endrin\n(ISO), heptachlor (ISO) or mirex\n(ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824850000', 'Containing 1,2,3,4,5,6-\nhexachlorocyclohexane (HCH\n(ISO)), including lindane (ISO, INN)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824860000', 'Containing pentachlorobenzene\n(ISO) or hexachlorobenzene (ISO)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824870000', 'Containing perfluorooctane\nsulphonic acid, its salts,\nperfluorooctane sulphonamides, or\nperfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824880000', 'Containing tetra-, penta-, hexa-\nhepta- or octabromodiphenyl ethers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824910000', 'Mixtures and preparations consisting\nmainly of (5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-\n1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl\nmethyl methylphosphonate and\nbis[(5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl]\nmethylphosphonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824991000', 'Roasted chromite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824992100', 'Getters for vacuum tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824992210', 'Material for manufacturing\nagricultural chemicals (registered\nmaterial under the Agricultural\nChemicals Management Act)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824992290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824992900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824993100', 'Mixtures consisting mainly of[O-2-\ndialkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl) aminoethyl] hydrogen\nalkyl (methyl, ethyl, n-propyl or\nisopropyl) phosphonites and their O-\nalkyl (≤C10, including cycloalkyl)\nesters; mixtures consisting mainly of\nalkylated or protoanted salts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824993910', 'Other mixtures consisting mainly of\nchemicals containing a phosphorus\natom to which is bonded one methyl,\nethyl, n-propyl or isopropyl group\nbut not further carbon atoms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824993990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824994100', 'Mixed polyethylene glycol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824994200', 'Ion-exchangers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824994300', 'Anti-scaling compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824994400', 'Additives to harden varnish or glue', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824995100', 'Ink-removers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824995200', 'Stencil correctors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824995300', 'Correcting fluids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996100', 'Compounded extenders for paints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996200', 'Preparations for the manufacture of\ncertain ceramic articles (artificial\nteeth, etc)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996300', 'Soda-lime', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996400', 'Hydrated silica gel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996500', 'Anti-rust preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824996600', 'Preparations for the manufacture of\nceramic condenser and ferrite core', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997100', 'Metal plating preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997200', 'Chlorinated paraffin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997300', 'Anti-foaming agent', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997400', 'Foaming agent', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997500', 'Prepared calcium carbonate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997600', 'Liquid crystal preparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824997700', 'Ammoniacal gas liquors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824998000', 'Prepared organic peroxides (other\nthan products of heading 38.15 and\nsubheading 3824.99.4400)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999010', 'Micro-element fertilisers (other than\nproducts of Chapter 31)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999020', 'Chewing gum base', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999030', 'Naphthenic acids, their water-\ninsoluble salts and their esters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999041', 'With nicotine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3824999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825100000', 'Municipal waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825200000', 'Sewage sludge', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825301000', 'Of heading 30.05.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825302000', 'Of subheading 3824.84 to 3824.88,\n3824.91 or 3824.99', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825303000', 'Of subheading 4015.11', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825304000', 'Of subheading 9018.3', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825410000', 'Halogenated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825500000', 'Wastes of metal pickling liquors,\nhydraulic fluids, brake fluids and\nanti-freeze fluids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825610000', 'Mainly containing organic\nconstituents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3825900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3826000000', 'Biodiesel and mixtures thereof, not\ncontaining or containing less than\n70 % by weight of petroleum oils or\noils obtained from bituminous\nminerals.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3901101000', 'Linear low density polyethylene', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['3901109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['3901201000', 'Of pulp', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3901209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['3901300000', 'Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers', '5.0%', 'E5'], ['3901400000', 'Ethylene-alpha-olefin copolymers,\nhaving a specific gravity of less than\n0.94', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3901900000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3902100000', 'Polypropylene', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3902200000', 'Polyisobutylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3902300000', 'Propylene copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3902900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903110000', 'Expansible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903200000', 'Styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN)\ncopolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903300000', 'Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene\n(ABS) copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903901000', 'Styrene-butadiene copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3903909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3904100000', 'Poly (vinyl chloride), not mixed with\nany other substances', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3904210000', 'Non-plasticised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904220000', 'Plasticised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904300000', 'Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate\ncopolymers', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3904400000', 'Other vinyl chloride copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904500000', 'Vinylidene chloride polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904610000', 'Polytetrafluoroethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3904900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905120000', 'In aqueous dispersion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905210000', 'In aqueous dispersion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905300000', 'Poly(vinyl alcohol), whether or not\ncontaining unhydrolysed acetate\ngroups', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3905910000', 'Copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3905990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3906100000', 'Poly(methyl methacrylate)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3906901000', 'Poly acryl amide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3906909000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3907100000', 'Polyacetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907201000', 'Polyoxyethylene (polyethylene\nglycol)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907202000', 'Polyoxypropylene (polypropylene\nglycol)', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3907203000', 'Poly phenylene oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907301000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907400000', 'Polycarbonates', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3907500000', 'Alkyd resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907610000', 'Having a viscosity number of 78 ㎖\n/g or higher', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907700000', 'Poly(lactic acid)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907910000', 'Unsaturated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907991000', 'Poly butylene terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907992000', 'Thermoplastic liquid crystal aromatic\npolyester copolymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3907999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3908101000', 'Polyamide-6', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3908102000', 'Polyamide-6,6', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3908103000', 'Polyamide-11, -12, -6,9, -6,10, -6,12', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3908900000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['3909101000', 'Urea resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909102000', 'Thiourea resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909200000', 'Melamine resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909310000', 'Poly(methylene phenyl isocyanate)\n(crude MDI, polymeric MDI)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909400000', 'Phenolic resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3909500000', 'Polyurethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3910001000', 'For making semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3910009010', 'Silicon oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3910009020', 'Silicon rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3910009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911101000', 'Petroleum resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911102000', 'Coumarone, indene or coumarone-\nindene resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911103000', 'Polyterpenes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911901000', 'Polysulphides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911902000', 'Polysulphones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911903000', 'Furan resin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3911909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912110000', 'Non-plasticised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912120000', 'Plasticised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912200000', 'Cellulose nitrates (including\ncollodions)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912311000', 'Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912391000', 'Methyl cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912901000', 'Regenerated cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3912909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913101000', 'Sodium alginate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913102000', 'Propylene glycol alginate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913901000', 'Hardened proteins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913902010', 'Chlorinated rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913902040', 'Cyclised rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913909010', 'Dextran', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3913909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3914001000', 'Cationic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3914009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915101000', 'Film, sheets, plates and foil before\nthey became wastes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915102000', 'Pipes and hoses before they became\nwastes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915200000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915300000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915901000', 'Of polymers of propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915902000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915903000', 'Of polyacetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915904000', 'Of polycarbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915905000', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3915909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916100000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916200000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916901000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916902000', 'Of polymers of propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916903000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916904000', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3916909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917101000', 'Of hardened protein', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917102000', 'Of cellulosic materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917210000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917220000', 'Of polymers of propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917230000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917291000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917292000', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917311000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917312000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917321000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917322000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917331000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917332000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917391000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917392000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3917400000', 'Fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3918101000', 'Of polyvinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3918102000', 'Of copolymers of vinyl chloride and\nvinyl acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3918109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3918900000', 'Of other plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3919100000', 'In rolls of a width not exceeding 20\ncm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3919900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920100000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920200000', 'Of polymers of propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920300000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920430000', 'Containing by weight not less than\n6 % of plasticisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920510000', 'Of poly(methyl methacrylate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920610000', 'Of polycarbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920620000', 'Of poly(ethylene terephthalate)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920630000', 'Of unsaturated polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920690000', 'Of other polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920710000', 'Of regenerated cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920730000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920791000', 'Of vulcanised fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920910000', 'Of poly(vinyl butyral)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920920000', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920930000', 'Of amino-resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920940000', 'Of phenolic resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920991000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920999010', 'Polyimides film, for manufacturing\nPrinted Circuit Board with the\nfunction of lead frame', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3920999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921110000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921120000', 'Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921130000', 'Of polyurethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921140000', 'Of regenerated cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921191010', 'Separator, for manufacturing\nsecondary battery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921192010', 'Separator, for manufacturing\nsecondary battery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921192090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921193010', 'Of polymethyl methacrylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921193090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921194010', 'Of polycarbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921194020', 'Of polyethylene terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921194030', 'Of unsaturated polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921194090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921195010', 'Of vulcanised fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921195020', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921195090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921199010', 'Of polyvinyl butyral', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921199020', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921199030', 'Of amino-resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921199040', 'Of phenolic resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921901000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921902000', 'Of polymers of propylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921903000', 'Of polymers of styrene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921904010', 'Rigid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921904020', 'Flexible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921905010', 'Of polymethyl methacrylate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921905090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921906010', 'Of polycarbonates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921906020', 'Of polyethylene terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921906030', 'Of unsaturated polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921906090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921907010', 'Of regenerated cellulose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921907020', 'Of vulcanised fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921907030', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921907090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909010', 'Of polyvinyl butyral', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909020', 'Of polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909030', 'Of amino-resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909040', 'Of phenolic resins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909050', 'Of polyurethanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3921909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922101000', 'Baths and shower baths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922102000', 'Wash-basins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922103000', 'Sinks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922200000', 'Lavatory seats and covers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922901000', 'Bidets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3922909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923100000', 'Boxes, cases, crates and similar\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923210000', 'Of polymers of ethylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923290000', 'Of other plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923300000', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923400000', 'Spools, cops, bobbins and similar\nsupports', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923500000', 'Stoppers, lids, caps and other\nclosures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3923900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3924100000', 'Tableware and kitchenware', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3924901000', 'Soap dishes and boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3924902000', 'Table cloths and other similar articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3924909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3925100000', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers, of a capacity exceeding\n300 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3925200000', 'Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3925300000', 'Shutters, blinds (including Venetian\nblinds) and similar articles and parts\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3925900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926101000', 'Pencil cases and erasers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926102000', 'Binders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926200000', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories (including gloves,\nmittens and mitts)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926300000', 'Fittings for furniture, coachwork or\nthe like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926400000', 'Statuettes and other ornamental\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926901000', 'Parts for use in machinery and\nmechanical appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926902000', 'Fans and hand screens non-\nmechanical; frames and handles\ntherefor and parts of such frames and\nhandles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926903000', 'Lables and tags', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926904000', 'Adhesive tapes with case', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926905000', 'Frames for painting, photographs,\nmirrors and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926906000', 'Albums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['3926909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001100000', 'Natural rubber latex, whether or not\npre-vulcanised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001210000', 'Smoked sheets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001220000', 'Technically specified natural rubber\n(TSNR)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001301000', 'Chicle gum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4001309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002110000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002201000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002311000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002391000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002399010', 'Of chlorinated-isobutene-isoprene\nrubber (CIIR)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002399020', 'Of brominated-isobutene-isoprene\nrubber (BIIR)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002410000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002510000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002601000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002701000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002709000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['4002801000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002910000', 'Latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002991000', 'Of carboxylated acrylonitrile-\nbutadiene rubbers (XNBR)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002992000', 'Of acrylonitrile-isoprene rubbers\n(NIR)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002993000', 'Thioplasts (TM)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4002999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4003000000', 'Reclaimed rubber in primary forms\nor in plates, sheets or strip.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4004000000', 'Waste, parings and scrap of rubber\n(other than hard rubber) and powders\nand granules obtained therefrom.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005101000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005200000', 'Solutions; dispersions other than\nthose of subheading 4005.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005910000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005991000', 'Compounded rubber latex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4005999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006100000', '"Camel-back" strips for retreading\nrubber tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006901000', 'Rubber rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006902000', 'Rubber tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006903000', 'Rubber profile shapes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006904000', 'Rubber discs, rings and washers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006905000', 'Rubber thread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4006909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4007001000', 'Rubber thread', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['4007002000', 'Rubber cord', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008111000', 'Combined with textile fabrics for\nreinforcing purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008191000', 'Combined with textile fabrics for\nreinforcing purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008211000', 'Combined with textile fabrics for\nreinforcing purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008291000', 'Combined with textile fabrics for\nreinforcing purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4008299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009110000', 'Without fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009120000', 'With fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009210000', 'Without fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009220000', 'With fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009310000', 'Without fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009320000', 'With fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009410000', 'Without fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4009420000', 'With fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010110000', 'Reinforced only with metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010120000', 'Reinforced only with textile\nmaterials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010191000', 'Reinforced only with plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010310000', 'Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V- belts),\nV-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but\nnot exceeding 180 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010320000', 'Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V- belts),\nother than V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but\nnot exceeding 180 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010330000', 'Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts),\nV-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 180 cm but\nnot exceeding 240 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010340000', 'Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts),\nother than V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 180 cm but\nnot exceeding 240 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010350000', 'Endless synchronous belts, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60\ncm but not exceeding 150 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010360000', 'Endless synchronous belts, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 150\ncm but not exceeding 198 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4010390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011101000', 'Of radial carcass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011102000', 'Of biased carcass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011201010', 'For use on a rim measuring less than\n49.53 ㎝ in diameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011202010', 'For use on a rim measuring less than\n49.53 ㎝ in diameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011300000', 'Of a kind used on aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011400000', 'Of a kind used on motorcycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011500000', 'Of a kind used on bicycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011701000', 'Having a ”herring-bone” or similar\ntread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011801010', 'Having a rim size not exceeding 61\n㎝', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011801090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011809010', 'Having a rim size not exceeding 61\n㎝', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011809090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011901000', 'Having a ”herring-bone” or similar\ntread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4011909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012110000', 'Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons and racing\ncars)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012120000', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012130000', 'Of a kind used on aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012201000', 'Of a kind used on aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012209010', 'Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons and racing\ncars)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012209020', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012901010', 'Solid tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012901020', 'Cushion tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012901030', 'Tyre treads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012901040', 'Tyre flaps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012909010', 'Solid tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012909020', 'Cushion tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012909030', 'Tyre treads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012909040', 'Tyre flaps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4012909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013101000', 'Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons and racing\ncars)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013102000', 'Of a kind used on buses or lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013200000', 'Of a kind used on bicycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013901000', 'Of a kind used on aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013909010', 'Of a kind used on motorcycles or\nmotor scooters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013909020', 'Of a kind used on industrial vehicles\nor agricultural machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4013909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4014100000', 'Sheath contraceptives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4014901000', 'Teats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4014909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4015110000', 'Surgical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4015190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4015901000', 'Protective clothing for divers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4015902000', 'Protective clothing for radiologists', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4015909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016100000', 'Of cellular rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016910000', 'Floor coverings and mats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016920000', 'Erasers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016930000', 'Gaskets, washers and other seals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016940000', 'Boat or dock fenders, whether or not\ninflatable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016951000', 'Pneumatic mattresses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016952000', 'Pillows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016953000', 'Cushions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016959000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016991010', 'Parts of balloons, airships, flying\nmachines, gliders, kites and\nrotochutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016992000', 'Rubber bands', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016993000', 'Stoppers and rings for bottles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4016999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4017001000', 'Hard rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4017002000', 'Articles of hard rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101201000', 'Hides and skins, untanned', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101202000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including pre-\ntanning) process which is reversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501011', 'Cow hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501012', 'Steer hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501013', 'Ox hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501014', 'Bull hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501021', 'Cow hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501022', 'Steer hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501023', 'Ox hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501024', 'Bull hide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101501090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101502000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including pre-\ntanning) process which is reversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101901010', 'Butts and bends', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101901091', 'Of calf skin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101901099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4101902000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including pre-\ntanning) process which is reversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4102100000', 'With wool on', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4102211000', 'Hides and skins, untanned', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4102212000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including pre-\ntanning) process which is reversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4102291000', 'Hides and skins, untanned', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4102292000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including pre-\ntanning) process which is reversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103201010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103201030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103202000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including\npretanning) process which is\nreversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103301000', 'Hides and skins, untanned', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103302000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including\npretanning) process which is\nreversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103901010', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103901020', 'Of kangaroo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103901030', 'Of camels (including dromedaries)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4103902000', 'Hides and skins, which have\nundergone a tanning (including\npretanning) process which is\nreversible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4104110000', 'Full grains, unsplit; grain splits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4104190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4104410000', 'Full grains, unsplit; grain splits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4104490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4105100000', 'In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4105300000', 'In the dry state (crust)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106210000', 'In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106220000', 'In the dry state (crust)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106310000', 'In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106320000', 'In the dry state (crust)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106400000', 'Of reptiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106910000', 'In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4106920000', 'In the dry state (crust)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107110000', 'Full grains, unsplit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107120000', 'Grain splits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107910000', 'Full grains, unsplit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107920000', 'Grain splits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4107990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4112000000', 'Leather further prepared after\ntanning or crusting, including\nparchment-dressed leather, of sheep\nor lamb, without wool on, whether or\nnot split, other than leather of\nheading 41.14.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4113100000', 'Of goats or kids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4113200000', 'Of swine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4113300000', 'Of reptiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4113900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4114100000', 'Chamois (including combination\nchamois) leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4114201000', 'Patent leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4114202000', 'Patent laminated leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4114203000', 'Metallised leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4115100000', 'Composition leather with a basis of\nleather or leather fibre, in slabs,\nsheets or strip, whether or not in rolls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4115200000', 'Parings and other waste of leather or\nof composition leather, not suitable\nfor the manufacture of leather\narticles; leather dust, powder and\nflour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201001000', 'Of reptile leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201009010', 'Saddles and saddle cloths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201009020', 'Traces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201009030', 'Leads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201009040', 'Muzzles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4201009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111020', 'Of lizard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111040', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111050', 'Of kangaroo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202111090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202112000', 'Of composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202113000', 'Of patent leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202121010', 'Of polyvinylchloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202121020', 'Of polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202121090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202122000', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202191000', 'Of paper board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211020', 'Of lizard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211040', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211050', 'Of kangaroo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202212000', 'Of composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202213000', 'Of patent leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202221010', 'Of polyvinylchloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202221020', 'Of polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202221090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202222000', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202291000', 'Of paper board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311020', 'Of lizard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311040', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311050', 'Of kangaroo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202312000', 'Of composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202313000', 'Of patent leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202321010', 'Of polyvinylchloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202321020', 'Of polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202322000', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202391000', 'Of paper board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911020', 'Of lizard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911040', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911050', 'Of kangaroo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202912000', 'Of composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202913000', 'Of patent leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202921010', 'Of polyvinylchloride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202921020', 'Of polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202921090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202922000', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202991000', 'Of paper board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4202999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101010', 'Coats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101020', 'Jackets, blazers and jumpers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101050', 'Vests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101060', 'Pants and trousers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101070', 'Skirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101080', 'Overalls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102010', 'Coats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102020', 'Jackets, blazers and jumpers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102050', 'Vests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102060', 'Pants and trousers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102070', 'Skirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102080', 'Overalls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103010', 'Coats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103020', 'Jackets, blazers and jumpers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103050', 'Vests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103060', 'Pants and trousers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103070', 'Skirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103080', 'Overalls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203103090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109010', 'Coats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109020', 'Jackets, blazers and jumpers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109050', 'Vests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109060', 'Pants and trousers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109070', 'Skirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109080', 'Overalls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203211000', 'Baseball glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203212000', 'Golf glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203213000', 'Ski glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203214000', 'Motor cycle glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203215000', 'Batting glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203216000', 'Tennis glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203217000', 'Ice hockey glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203291000', 'Working glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203292000', 'Thermal glove', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203293000', "Driver's glove", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203301010', 'Of snake', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203301020', 'Of lizard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203301030', 'Of crocodile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203301040', 'Of eels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4203400000', 'Other clothing accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205001110', 'Belts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205001190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205001900', 'Other articles of leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205002110', 'Belts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205002190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4205002900', 'Other articles of composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4206001000', 'Catgut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4206009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301100000', 'Of mink, whole, with or without\nhead, tail or paws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301300000', 'Of lamb, the following : Astrakhan,\nBroadtail, Caracul, Persian and\nsimilar lamb, Indian, Chinese,\nMongolian or Tibetan lamb, whole,\nwith or without head, tail or paws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301600000', 'Of fox, whole, with or without head,\ntail or paws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301802000', 'Of opossum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301803000', 'Of raccoon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301804000', 'Of coyote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301805000', 'Of rabbit or hare', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301806000', 'Of musk-rat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4301900000', "Heads, tails, paws and other pieces\nor cuttings, suitable for furriers' use", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302110000', 'Of mink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302191000', 'Of beaver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302192000', 'Of musk-rat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302193000', 'Of fox', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302195000', 'Of chinchila', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302196000', 'Of opossum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302197000', 'Of raccoon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302198000', 'Of coyote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302199010', 'Of sheep', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302199020', 'Of lamb, the following : Astrakhan,\nBroadtail, Caracul, Persian and\nsimilar lamb, Indian, Chinese,\nMongolian or Tibetan lamb', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302201000', 'Of mink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302202000', 'Of rabbit or hare', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302203000', 'Of beaver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302204000', 'Of musk-rat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302205000', 'Of fox', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302207000', 'Of chinchila', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302209020', 'Of raccoon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302209030', 'Of coyote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4302300000', 'Whole skins and pieces or cuttings\nthereof, assembled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101100', 'Of mink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101200', 'Of rabbit or hare', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101300', 'Of lamb', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101400', 'Of beaver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101500', 'Of musk-rat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101600', 'Of fox', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101800', 'Of chinchila', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101910', 'Of opossum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101920', 'Of raccoon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101930', 'Of coyote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303101990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102100', 'Of mink', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102200', 'Of rabbit or hare', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102300', 'Of lamb', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102400', 'Of beaver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102500', 'Of musk-rat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102600', 'Of fox', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102800', 'Of chinchila', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102920', 'Of raccoon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102930', 'Of coyote', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303102990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4303900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4304001000', 'Artificial fur', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4304002000', 'Articles of artificial fur', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401110000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401120000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401210000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401221000', 'For manufacturing pulp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401310000', 'Wood pellets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4401400000', 'Sawdust and wood waste and scrap,\nnot agglomerated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4402101000', 'Agglomerated wood charcoal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4402109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4402901000', 'Agglomerated wood charcoal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4402909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403110000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403121000', 'Tropical woods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403211000', 'Red pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403212000', 'Radiata pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403221000', 'Red pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403222000', 'Radiata pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403231000', 'Fir (Abies spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403232000', 'Spruce (Picea spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403241000', 'Fir (Abies spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403242000', 'Spruce (Picea spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403251000', 'Cedar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403252000', 'Oregon pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403253000', 'Larch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403254000', 'White wood or fir, excluding Abies\nspp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403261000', 'Cedar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403262000', 'Oregon pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403263000', 'Larch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403264000', 'White wood or fir, excluding Abies\nspp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403269000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403410000', 'Dark Red Meranti, Light Red\nMeranti and Meranti Bakau', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403491000', 'White Lauan, White Meranti, White\nSeraya, Yellow Meranti and Alan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403492000', 'Keruing, Ramin, Kapur, Teak,\nJongkong, Merbau, Jelutong and\nKempas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403493000', "Okoume', Obeche, Sapelli, Sipo,\nAcajou d'Afrique, Makore and Iroko", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403494000', "Tiama, Mansonia, Ilomba, Dibetou,\nLimba and Azobe'", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403495000', 'Mahogany and Balsa', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403910000', 'Of oak (Quercus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403930000', 'Of beech (Fagus spp.), of which any\ncross-sectional dimension is 15 cm\nor more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403940000', 'Of beech (Fagus spp.), other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403950000', 'Of birch (Betula spp.), of which any\ncross-sectional dimension is 15 cm\nor more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403960000', 'Of birch (Betula spp.), other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403971000', 'Poplar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403972000', 'Aspen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403980000', 'Of eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403991010', 'Rosewood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403991020', 'Ebonywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403991040', 'Ash', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403991050', 'Walnut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403992000', 'Lignum vitae', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403993030', 'Maple', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403993040', 'Elm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403993060', 'Basswood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403994000', 'Paulownia', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4403999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4404100000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4404200000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4405000000', 'Wood wool; wood flour.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4406110000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4406120000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4406910000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4406920000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4407111000', 'Red pine', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4407112000', 'Radiata pine', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4407119000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4407121000', 'Fir (Abies spp.)', '5.0%', 'SS'], ['4407122000', 'Spruce (Picea spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407191000', 'Cedar', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407192010', 'Douglas-fir', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407192020', 'Hemlock', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407192090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407193000', 'White wood or fir, excluding Abies\nspp.', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407194000', 'Larch', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407195000', 'Retinispora', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407199000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407210000', 'Mahogany (Swietenia spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407220000', 'Virola, Imbua and Balsa', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407250000', 'Dark Red Meranti, Light Red\nMeranti and Meranti Bakau', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407260000', 'White Lauan, White Meranti, White\nSeraya, Yellow Meranti and Alan', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['4407270000', 'Sapelli', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407280000', 'Iroko', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407291000', 'Keruing, Ramin, Kapur, Jongkong,\nMerbau, Jelutong and Kempas', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407292000', 'Teak', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407293000', "Okoume, Obeche, Sipo, Acajou,\nd'afrique, Makore, Tiama, Mansonia,\nIlomba, Dibetou Limba and Azobe", '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407299000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4407910000', 'Of oak (Quercus spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407920000', 'Of beech (Fagus spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407930000', 'Of maple (Acer spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407940000', 'Of cherry (Prunus spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407950000', 'Of ash (Fraxinus spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407960000', 'Of birch (Betula spp.)', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407971000', 'Poplar', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407972000', 'Aspen', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407991010', 'Rosewood', '5.0%', 'E7'], ['4407991020', 'Ebonywood', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407991040', 'Walnut', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407991090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407992000', 'Lignum vitae', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407993040', 'Elm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407993060', 'Basswood', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407994000', 'Paulownia', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4407999000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4408106000', 'For veneering obtained by slicing\nlaminated wood or for other similar\nlaminated wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109100', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109200', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109910', 'Cedar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109920', 'Oregon pine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109950', 'Larch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109960', 'Spruce', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408109990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408313000', 'For veneering obtained by slicing\nlaminated wood or for other similar\nlaminated wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319011', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319012', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319021', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319022', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408319029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408396000', 'For veneering obtained by slicing\nlaminated wood or for other similar\nlaminated wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399011', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399012', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399021', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399022', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399031', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399032', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399041', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399042', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399051', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399052', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399059', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399091', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399092', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408399099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408901000', 'For veneering obtained by slicing\nlaminated wood or for other similar\nlaminated wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909150', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909160', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909191', 'Rosewood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909192', 'Ebonywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909193', 'Ash', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909194', 'Walnut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909195', 'Oak', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909199', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909210', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909220', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909370', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909380', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909391', 'Aspen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909392', 'Poplar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909393', 'Maple', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909394', 'Elm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909395', 'Birch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909396', 'Basswood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909410', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909420', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909490', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909910', 'For manufacturing plywood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909920', 'Patterned veneer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4408909990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409101000', 'Siding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409102000', 'Flooring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409210000', 'Of bamboo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409221000', 'Siding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409222000', 'Flooring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409291000', 'Siding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409292000', 'Flooring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4409299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4410111000', 'Unworked or not further worked than\nsanded', '6.4%', 'EX'], ['4410112000', 'Surface-covered with melamine-\nimpregnated paper', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4410113000', 'Surface-covered with decorative\nlaminates of plastics', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4410119000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4410121000', 'Unworked or not further worked than\nsanded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4410129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4410191010', 'Unworked or not further worked than\nsanded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4410191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4410199020', 'Surface-covered with melamine-\nimpregnated paper', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4410199030', 'Surface-covered with decorative\nlaminates of plastics', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4410199090', 'Other', '5.0% / 6.4%', 'E10'], ['4410900000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4411121000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '5.0% / 6.4%\n/ 8.0%', 'EX'], ['4411129000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E10'], ['4411131000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '5.0% / 6.4%\n/ 8.0%', 'EX'], ['4411139000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'EX'], ['4411141000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '5.0% / 6.4%\n/ 8.0%', 'EX'], ['4411149010', 'Floor board', '0.0% / 5.0%\n/ 6.4%', 'EX'], ['4411149090', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'EX'], ['4411921000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '6.4%', 'EX'], ['4411929010', 'Floor board', '0.0% / 6.4%', 'EX'], ['4411929090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4411931000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['4411939010', 'Floor board', '5.0% / 6.4%', 'EX'], ['4411939090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4411941000', 'Not mechanically worked and\nsurface not covered', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E10'], ['4411949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4412101010', 'Of a thickness less than 6 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412101020', 'Of a thickness not less than 6 mm', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412102000', 'Floor board', '8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412109010', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412109090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412311000', 'Of a thickness less than 3.2 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412312010', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412312090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412313000', 'Of a thickness less than 6 mm but\nnot less than 4 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412314011', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '8.0%', 'EX'], ['4412314019', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412314021', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412314029', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412315010', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412315090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412316010', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412316090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412317010', 'With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood specified in National Note 1 to\nthis chapter', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412317090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412331000', 'Of a thickness less than 3.2 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412332000', 'Of a thickness less than 4 mm but\nnot less than 3.2 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412333000', 'Of a thickness less than 6 mm but\nnot less than 4 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412334010', 'Of a thickness less than 8mm but not\nless than 6mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412334020', 'Of a thickness less than 10mm but\nnot less than 8mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412335000', 'Of a thickness less than 12 mm but\nnot less than 10 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412336000', 'Of a thickness less than 15 mm but\nnot less than 12 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412337000', 'Of a thickness not less than 15 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412341000', 'Of a thickness less than 3.2 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412342000', 'Of a thickness less than 4 mm but\nnot less than 3.2 mm', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412343000', 'Of a thickness less than 6 mm but\nnot less than 4 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412344010', 'Of a thickness less than 8mm but not\nless than 6mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412344020', 'Of a thickness less than 10mm but\nnot less than 8mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412345000', 'Of a thickness less than 12 mm but\nnot less than 10 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412346000', 'Of a thickness less than 15 mm but\nnot less than 12 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412347000', 'Of a thickness not less than 15 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412391000', 'Of a thickness less than 6 mm', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412399000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412941000', 'Blockboard', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412942000', 'Laminboard', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412943000', 'Battenboard', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412994100', 'Plywood', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412994911', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0% /\n10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412994919', 'Other', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'EX'], ['4412994991', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412994999', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412995100', 'Plywood', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412995911', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0% /\n10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412995919', 'Other', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'EX'], ['4412995991', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412995999', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412996100', 'Plywood', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412996911', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412996919', 'Other', '8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412996991', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412996999', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412999100', 'Plywood', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4412999911', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0% /\n10.0%', 'EX'], ['4412999919', 'Other', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E10'], ['4412999991', 'Of a whole thickness not less than 6\nmm, with each ply not exceeding 6\nmm thickness', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['4412999999', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4413000000', 'Densified wood, in blocks, plates,\nstrips or profile shapes.', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['4414000000', 'Wooden frames for paintings,\nphotographs, mirrors or similar\nobjects.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4415100000', 'Cases, boxes, crates, drums and\nsimilar packings; cable-drums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4415200000', 'Pallets, box pallets and other load\nboards; pallet collars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4416000000', "Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other\ncoopers' products and parts thereof,\nof wood, including staves.", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4417000000', 'Tools, tool bodies, tool handles,\nbroom or brush bodies and handles,\nof wood; boot or shoe lasts and trees,\nof wood.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418100000', 'Windows, French-windows and their\nframes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418200000', 'Doors and their frames and\nthresholds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418400000', 'Shuttering for concrete\nconstructional work', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418500000', 'Shingles and shakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418600000', 'Posts and beams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418731000', 'Parquet panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418739000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418741000', 'Parquet panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418749000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418751000', 'Parquet panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418759000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418791000', 'Parquet panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418910000', 'Of bamboo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418991000', 'Cellular wood panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4418999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419110000', 'Bread boards, chopping boards and\nsimilar boards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419120000', 'Chopsticks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419901000', 'Bread boards, chopping boards and\nsimilar boards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419902000', 'Bowls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419903000', 'Chopsticks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4419909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420101000', 'Statuettes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420901000', 'Wood marquetry and inlaid wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420902010', 'Cigarette caskets or case', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420902020', 'Jewellery casket or case', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420902030', 'Other articles of furniture, not falling\nwithin Chapter 94', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420909010', 'Cigarette, jewellery casket or case', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420909020', 'Other articles of furniture, not falling\nwithin Chapter 94', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4420909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421100000', 'Clothes hangers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421911000', 'Spools, cops, bobbins, sewing thread\nreels and the like, of turned wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421912000', 'Match splints; wooden pegs or pins\nfor footwear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421913000', 'Toothpicks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421914000', 'Wood paving blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421915000', 'Fans and hand screens,\nnonmechanical; frames and handles\ntherefor and parts of such frames and\nhandles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421991000', 'Spools, cops, bobbins, sewing thread\nreels and the like, of turned wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421992000', 'Match splints; wooden pegs or pins\nfor footwear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421993000', 'Toothpicks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421994000', 'Wood paving blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421995000', 'Fans and hand screens,\nnonmechanical; frames and handles\ntherefor and parts of such frames and\nhandles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4421999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4501100000', 'Natural cork, raw or simply prepared', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4501900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4502000000', 'Natural cork, debacked or roughly\nsquared, or in rectangular (including\nsquare) blocks, plates, sheets or strip\n(including sharp-edged blanks for\ncorks or stoppers).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4503100000', 'Corks and stoppers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4503900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4504100000', 'Blocks, plates, sheets and strip; tiles\nof any shape; solid cylinders,', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'including discs', '', ''], ['4504900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601211000', 'Mats and matting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601212000', 'Screens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601221000', 'Mats and matting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601222000', 'Screens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601291000', 'Mats and matting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601292000', 'Screens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601921000', 'Eunjukbaljang (of width less than 35\ncm)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601930000', 'Of rattan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601941000', 'Eunjukbaljang (of width less than 35\ncm)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601991000', 'Articles in sheets plaited with\nplastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4601999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602111000', 'Basket', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602112000', 'Trays, dishes and other similar\nkitchen or tablewares', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602120000', 'Of rattan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602191000', 'Articles of rush', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4602900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4701001000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4701002000', 'Semi-bleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4702000000', 'Chemical wood pulp, dissolving\ngrades.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703110000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703190000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703211000', 'Semi-bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703212000', 'Bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703291000', 'Semi-bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4703292000', 'Bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4704110000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4704190000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4704210000', 'Coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4704290000', 'Non-coniferous', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4705000000', 'Wood pulp obtained by a\ncombination of mechanical and\nchemical pulping processes.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706100000', 'Cotton linters pulp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706200000', 'Pulps of fibres derived from\nrecovered (waste and scrap) paper or\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706301000', 'Mechanical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706302000', 'Chemical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706303000', 'Semi-chemical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706911000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706912000', 'Semi-bleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706921000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706922000', 'Semi-bleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706931000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4706932000', 'Semi-bleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4707100000', 'Unbleached kraft paper or\npaperboard or corrugated paper or\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4707200000', 'Other paper or paperboard made\nmainly of bleached chemical pulp,\nnot coloured in the mass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4707300000', 'Paper or paperboard made mainly of\nmechanical pulp (for example,\nnewspapers, journals and similar\nprinted matter)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4707900000', 'Other, including unsorted waste and\nscrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4801000000', 'Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802100000', 'Hand-made paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802200000', 'Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nas a base for photo-sensitive, heat-\nsensitive or electro-sensitive paper or\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802400000', 'Wallpaper base', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802541010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802541090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802549010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802549090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802551010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802551020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802551030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including\nOptical Mark Reading paper and\nOptical Character Reading paper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802551040', 'Fancy paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802551090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802559010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802559090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802561010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802561020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802561030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including\nOMR paper and OCR paper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802561040', 'Fancy paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802561090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802569010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802569090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802571010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802571020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802571030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including\nOMR paper and OCR paper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802571040', 'Fancy paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802571090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802579010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802579090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802581010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802581020', 'Fancy paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802581090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802582010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802582090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802589010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802589090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802611010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802611020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802611030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'OMR paper and OCR paper)', '', ''], ['4802611090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802619010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802619090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802621010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802621020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802621030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including\nOMR paper and OCR paper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802621090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802629010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802629090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802691010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802691020', 'Copy or duplicating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802691030', 'Business machine paper and\ncontinuous forms bond(including\nOMR paper and OCR paper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802691040', 'Fancy paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802691090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802699010', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4802699090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4803001000', 'Toilet or facial tissue stock for\nhousehold or sanitary purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4803002000', 'Cellulose wadding and webs of\ncellulose fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4803009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804110000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804210000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804311000', 'Electric insulating paper and paper\nboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804312000', 'Condenser paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804313000', 'Wrapping paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804391000', 'Electric insulating paper and\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804392000', 'Condenser paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804393000', 'Wrapping paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804411010', 'Weighing less than 200 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804411090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804419010', 'Weighing less than 200 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804419090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804421010', 'Base stock for milk cartons and other\nbeverage containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804421020', 'Folding carton stock (including\ncosmetic, pharmaceutic, cigarette\ncase and the like)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804421030', 'Base stock for trays, dishes, plates,\ncups and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804421090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804429010', 'Base stock for milk cartons and other\nbeverage containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804429030', 'Base stock for trays, dishes, plates,\ncups and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804429090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804491000', 'Weighing less than 200 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804510000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804521000', 'Base stock for milk cartons and other\nbeverage containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804522000', 'Folding carton stock(including\ncosmetic, pharmaceutic, cigarette\ncase and the like)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804523000', 'Base stock for trays, dishes, plates,\ncups and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4804590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805110000', 'Semi-chemical fluting paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805120000', 'Straw fluting paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805241000', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805249000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805251000', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805300000', 'Sulphite wrapping paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805400000', 'Filter paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805500000', 'Felt paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805911000', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805919010', 'Condenser paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805919090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805921000', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805931000', 'Multi-ply paper and paperboard,\nbleached each layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4805939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4806100000', 'Vegetable parchment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4806200000', 'Greaseproof papers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4806300000', 'Tracing papers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4806401000', 'Glassine paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4806409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4807000000', 'Composite paper and paperboard\n(made by sticking flat layers of paper\nor paperboard together with an\nadhesive), not surface-coated or\nimpregnated, whether or not\ninternally reinforced, in rolls or\nsheets.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4808100000', 'Corrugated paper and paperboard,\nwhether or not perforated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4808401000', 'For sack', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4808409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4808900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809201000', 'One-ply', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809202000', 'Multi-ply', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809901000', 'Transfer paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809902010', 'Weighing not less than 65g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809903000', 'Graphic art paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809904000', 'Carbon or similar copying papers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4809909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810131000', 'Printing or writing paper and\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810141000', 'Printing or writing paper and\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810191000', 'Printing or writing paper and\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810220000', 'Light-weight coated paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810311000', 'Folding carton stock(including\ncosmetic, pharmaceutic, cigarette\ncase and the like)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810312000', 'Base stock for trays, dishes, plates,\ncups and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810321000', 'Folding carton stock(including\ncosmetic, pharmaceutic, cigarette\ncase and the like)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810322000', 'Base stock for trays, dishes, plates,\ncups and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810921010', 'Weighing not more than 250g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810921090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810922000', 'Ivory duplex board with white back', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810991000', 'Matrix paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810992000', 'Filter paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4810999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811101000', 'Roofing paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811410000', 'Self-adhesive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811511000', 'Weighing more than 150 g/㎡ but\nnot more than 265 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811519011', 'Floor coverings on a base of paper or\nof paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811519019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811519090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811600000', 'Paper and paperboard, coated,\nimpregnated or covered with wax,\nparaffin wax, stearin, oil or glycerol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811901010', 'Ruled, lined or squared', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811902010', 'Cellulose wadding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4811902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4812000000', 'Filter blocks, slabs and plates, of\npaper pulp.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4813100000', 'In the form of booklets or tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4813200000', 'In rolls of a width not exceeding 5\ncm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4813900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814201000', 'Wall paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814202000', 'Lincrusta', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814901010', 'Of kohemp fiber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4814909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816201000', 'One ply', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816202000', 'Multi-ply', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816901000', 'Transfer paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816902010', 'Weighing not less than 65g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816903000', 'Graphic art paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816904000', 'Carbon or similar copying papers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816905000', 'Duplicator stencils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4816909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4817100000', 'Envelopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4817200000', 'Letter cards, plain postcards and\ncorrespondence cards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4817300000', 'Boxes, pouches, wallets and writing\ncompendiums, of paper or\npaperboard, containing an assortment\nof paper stationery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4818100000', 'Toilet paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4818200000', 'Handkerchiefs, cleansing or facial\ntissues and towels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4818300000', 'Tablecloths and serviettes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4818500000', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4818900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819100000', 'Cartons, boxes and cases, of\ncorrugated paper or paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819200000', 'Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of\nnon-corrugated paper or paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819300000', 'Sacks and bags, having a base of a\nwidth of 40 cm or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819400000', 'Other sacks and bags, including\ncones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819501000', 'Suitable for packing liquid', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4819600000', 'Box files, letter trays, storage boxes\nand similar articles, of a kind used in\noffices, shops or the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820100000', 'Registers, account books, note\nbooks, order books, receipt books,\nletter pads, memorandum pads,\ndiaries and similar articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820200000', 'Exercise books', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820300000', 'Binders (other than book covers),\nfolders and file covers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820400000', 'Manifold business forms and\ninterleaved carbon sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820500000', 'Albums for samples or for\ncollections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4820900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4821100000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4821900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4822100000', 'Of a kind used for winding textile\nyarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4822900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823200000', 'Filter paper and paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823400000', 'Rolls, sheets and dials, printed for\nself-recording apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823610000', 'Of bamboo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823700000', 'Moulded or pressed articles of paper\npulp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823901010', 'Cards punched', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823902000', 'Electric insulating paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823903011', 'Floor coverings on a base of paper or\nof paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823903019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823903021', 'Floor coverings on a base of paper or\nof paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823903029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823905000', 'Perforated paper for jacquard\nweaving machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823909011', 'Floor coverings on a base of paper or\nof paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823909019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4823909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901101000', 'Printed in Korean', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901911000', 'Printed in Korean', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901991000', 'Printed in Korean', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4901999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902101010', 'Newspapers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902901010', 'Journals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902909010', 'Journals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4902909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4903000000', "Children's picture, drawing or\ncolouring books.", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4904000000', 'Music, printed or in manuscript,\nwhether or not bound or illustrated.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4905100000', 'Globes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4905911000', 'Maps and hydrographic chart', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4905919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4905990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4906001000', 'Plans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4906002000', 'Drawings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4906009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4907001000', 'Unused postage stamp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4907002000', 'Air way bill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4907009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4908100000', 'Transfers (decalcomanias), vitrifiable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4908901000', 'Transfers (decalcomanias) for\ncushion flooring sheet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4908909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4909000000', 'Printed or illustrated postcards;\nprinted cards bearing personal\ngreetings, messages or\nannouncements, whether or not\nillustrated, with or without envelopes\nor trimmings.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4910001000', 'Of paper or paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4910009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4911100000', 'Trade advertising material,\ncommercial catalogues and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4911911000', 'Printed plans and drawings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4911919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['4911990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5001000000', 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for\nreeling.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002001010', 'Not more than 20 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002001020', 'More than 20 decitex but not more\nthan 25.56 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002001030', 'More than 25.56 decitex but not\nmore than 28.89 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002001040', 'More than 28.89 decitex but not\nmore than 36.67 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002001050', 'More than 36.67 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002002000', 'Doupion silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5002009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5003001000', 'Not carded or combed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5003009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5004000000', 'Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from\nsilk waste) not put up for retail sale.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5005001000', 'Hand made yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5005002000', 'Yarn spun from silk waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5005003000', 'Yarn spun from noil silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5006001000', 'Silk yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5006002000', 'Hand made yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5006003000', 'Yarn spun from silk waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5006004000', 'Yarn spun from noil silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5006005000', 'Silk worm gut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007100000', 'Fabrics of noil silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007201000', 'Silk fabrics, grey', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007202010', 'Shibori', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007202020', 'Satin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007202030', 'Crepe de chine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007901000', 'Silk fabrics, grey', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007902000', 'Silk woven fabrics, mixed with\nacetate yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007903000', 'Silk woven fabrics, mixed with other\nman-made fiber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007904000', 'Silk woven fabrics, mixed with wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5007909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5101110000', 'Shorn wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5101190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5101210000', 'Shorn wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5101290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5101300000', 'Carbonised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5102110000', 'Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5102190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5102200000', 'Coarse animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5103100000', 'Noils of wool or of fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5103200000', 'Other waste of wool or of fine\nanimal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5103300000', 'Waste of coarse animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5104000000', 'Garnetted stock of wool or of fine or\ncoarse animal hair.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105100000', 'Carded wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105210000', 'Combed wool in fragments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105310000', 'Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5105400000', 'Coarse animal hair, carded or\ncombed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5106101000', 'Of all wool', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106201000', 'Mixed with polyester fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106202000', 'Mixed with polyamide fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106203000', 'Mixed with acrylic fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106204000', 'Mixed with other synthetic fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5106209000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107101000', 'Of all wool', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107102000', 'Mixed with synthetic fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107109000', 'Mixed with other fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107201000', 'Mixed with polyester fiber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5107202000', 'Mixed with polyamide fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107203000', 'Mixed with acrylic fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107204000', 'Mixed with other synthetic fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5107209000', 'Mixed with other fiber', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5108100000', 'Carded', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5108200000', 'Combed', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5109101000', 'Yarn of wool', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5109109000', 'Yarn of fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5109901000', 'Yarn of wool', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5109909000', 'Yarn of fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5110000000', 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of\nhorsehair (including gimped\nhorsehair yarn), whether or not put\nup for retail sale.', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5111111000', 'Of wool', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5111112000', 'Of fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5111191000', 'Of wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5111192000', 'Of fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5111200000', 'Other, mixed mainly or solely with\nman-made filaments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5111300000', 'Other, mixed mainly or solely with\nman-made staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5111900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112111000', 'Of wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112112000', 'Of fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112191000', 'Of wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112192000', 'Of fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112200000', 'Other, mixed mainly or solely with\nman-made filaments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112300000', 'Other, mixed mainly or solely with\nman-made staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5112900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5113000000', 'Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair\nor of horsehair.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201001000', 'Seed cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201009010', 'Less than 23.2 ㎜ (7/8 inch) of\nfibre-length', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201009020', 'Not less than 23.2 ㎜ (7/8 inch), but\nless than 25.4 ㎜ (1 inch) of fibre-\nlength', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201009030', 'Not less than 25.4 ㎜ (1 inch), but\nless than 28.5 ㎜ (1-1/8 inch) of\nfibre-length', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201009050', 'Not less than 28.5 ㎜ (1-1/8 inch),\nbut less than 34.9 ㎜ (1-3/8 inch) of\nfiber length', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5201009060', 'Not less than 34.9 ㎜ (1-3/8 inch)\nof fiber-length', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5202100000', 'Yarn waste (including thread waste)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5202910000', 'Garnetted stock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5202990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5203000000', 'Cotton, carded or combed.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5204110000', 'Containing 85 % or more by weight\nof cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5204190000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5204200000', 'Put up for retail sale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205111000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205121010', 'Measuring not more than 370.37\ndecitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex (not less than 27 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric\nnumber). excluding open end yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205121090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205131000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205141000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205151000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205211000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205219000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205221000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205229000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205231000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205239000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205241000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205249000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205261000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205269000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205271000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205279000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205281000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205289000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['5205311000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205321010', 'Measuring not more than 370.37\ndecitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex(not less than 27 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric\nnumber). excluding open end yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205331000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205341000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205351000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205359000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5205411000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205419000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205421000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205429000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205431000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205439000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205441000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205449000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205461000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205469000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205471000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205479000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205481000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5205489000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5206111000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206121000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206131000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206141000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206151000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206211000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206221000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206231000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206241000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206249000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206251000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206311000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206321000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206331000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206341000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206351000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206359000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206411000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206421000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206431000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206439000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206441000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206449000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206451000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5206459000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5207101000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5207109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5207901000', 'Unbleached or not mercerized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5207909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208110000', 'Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208120000', 'Plain weave, weighing more than\n100 g/㎡', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5208130000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208190000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208210000', 'Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208220000', 'Plain weave, weighing more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208230000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208290000', 'Other fabrics', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5208310000', 'Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208320000', 'Plain weave, weighing more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208330000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208390000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208410000', 'Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208420000', 'Plain weave, weighing more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208430000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208490000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208510000', 'Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208520000', 'Plain weave, weighing more than\n100 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208591000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5208599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209110000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209120000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209190000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209210000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209220000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209290000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209310000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209320000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209390000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209410000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209420000', 'Denim', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209430000', 'Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread\ntwill, including cross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209490000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209510000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209520000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5209590000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210110000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210191000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210210000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210291000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210310000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210320000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210390000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210410000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210491000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210510000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5210590000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211110000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211120000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211190000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211200000', 'Bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211310000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211320000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211390000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211410000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211420000', 'Denim', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211430000', 'Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread\ntwill, including cross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211490000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211510000', 'Plain weave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211520000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5211590000', 'Other fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212110000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212120000', 'Bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212130000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212140000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212150000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212210000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212220000', 'Bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212230000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212240000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5212250000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5301100000', 'Flax, raw or retted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5301210000', 'Broken or scutched', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5301290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5301301000', 'Flax tow', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5301302000', 'Flax waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5302100000', 'True hemp, raw or retted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5302901000', 'True hemp, broken, scutched,\nhackled or otherwise processed, but\nnot spun.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5302902010', 'Tow of true hemp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5302902020', 'Waste of true hemp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303101000', 'Jute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303102000', 'Other textile bast fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303901010', 'Jute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303901090', 'Other textile bast fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303909010', 'Tow and waste of jute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5303909090', 'Tow and waste of other textile bast\nfibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5305001000', 'Of coconut (coir)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5305002000', 'Of abaca', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5305003000', 'Of sisal and the genus Agave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5305009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5306101000', 'Of all flax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5306102000', 'Of mixed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5306201000', 'Of all flax', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5306202000', 'Of mixed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5307101000', 'Of jute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5307109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5307201000', 'Of jute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5307209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5308100000', 'Coir yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5308200000', 'True hemp yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5308901000', 'Ramie yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5308909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5309110000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5309190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5309210000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5309290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5310101000', 'Jute fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5310109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5310901000', 'Jute fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5310909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5311001000', 'Of ramie', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5311002000', 'Of true hemp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5311003000', 'Of paper yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5311009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401101000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401102000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401103000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401201000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5401209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402110000', 'Of aramids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191011', 'For tire cord', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191012', 'For fishing net', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191019', 'For other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191021', 'For tire cord', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191022', 'For fishing net', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191029', 'For other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402191090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402200000', 'High tenacity yarn of polyesters,\nwhether or not textured', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402311010', 'Of nylon 6', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402311020', 'Of nylon 66', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402321010', 'Of nylon 6', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402321020', 'Of nylon 66', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402331000', 'Of poly trimethylene terephthalate', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5402339000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['5402340000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402440000', 'Elastomeric', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['5402451010', 'Of nylon 6', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402451020', 'Of nylon 66', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402451090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402459000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402461000', 'Of poly trimethylene terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402469000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402471000', 'Of poly trimethylene terephthalate', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5402479000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['5402480000', 'Other, of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402491000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402499000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['5402510000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402520000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402530000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402591000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402610000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402620000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402630000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402691000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402692000', 'Of polyvinyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5402699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403100000', 'High tenacity yarn of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403311000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403321000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403331000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403391000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403411000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403421000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403491000', 'Textured yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5403499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404110000', 'Elastomeric', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404120000', 'Other, of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404191000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404192000', 'Of polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404193000', 'Of polyvinyl alcohol', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404901000', 'Of strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5404909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5405001000', 'Monofilament', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5405009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5406001000', 'Synthetic filament yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5406002000', 'Artificial filament yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407101000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407102000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407200000', 'Woven fabrics obtained from strip or\nthe like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407300000', 'Fabrics specified in note 9 to section\nⅪ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407410000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407420000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407430000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407440000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407510000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407520000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407530000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407540000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407611000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407612000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407613000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407614000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407691000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407692000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407693000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407694000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407711000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407719000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407721000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407729000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407731000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407739000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407741000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407749000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407811000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407812000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407813000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407819000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407821000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407822000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407823000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407829000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407831000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407832000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407833000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407839000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407841000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407842000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407843000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407849000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407911000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407912000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407913000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407921000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407922000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407923000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407931000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407932000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407933000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407941000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407942000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407943000', 'Of acrylic polymers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5407949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408100000', 'Woven fabrics obtained from high\ntenacity yarn of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408210000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408220000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408230000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408240000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408310000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408320000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408330000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5408340000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501100000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501200000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501301000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501302000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501400000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5501900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5502101000', 'Less than 44,000 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5502102000', 'Not less than 44,000 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5502901000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5502909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503111000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503191000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503201000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503209010', 'Of poly trimethylene terephthalate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503301010', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503302010', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503302090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503400000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5503900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5504101000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5504102000', 'Of polynosic section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5504109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5504902000', 'Of lyocell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5504909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5505100000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5505200000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506101000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506201000', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506301010', 'Of special section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506302000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506400000', 'Of polypropylene', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5506900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5507001020', 'Of polynosic section face', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5507001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5507002000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5507009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508101000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508102000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508103000', 'Acrylic or modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508201000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5508209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509111000', 'High tenacity yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509121000', 'High tenacity yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509211000', 'High tenacity yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509221000', 'High tenacity yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509311000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509312000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509321000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509322000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509410000', 'Single yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509420000', 'Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509510000', 'Mixed mainly or solely with artificial\nstaple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509520000', 'Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509530000', 'Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509611000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509612000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509621000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509622000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509691010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509691020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509692010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509692020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509911000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509921000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5509990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510111000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510112000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510121000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510201000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510301000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510302000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510901000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510902000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5510909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511101000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511102000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511103000', 'Acrylic or modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511201000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511202000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511203000', 'Acrylic or modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511301000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5511309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512110000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512191000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512192000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512193000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512211000', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512212000', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512911000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512991000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5512999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513110000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513120000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513130000', 'Other woven fabrics of polyester\nstaple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513191000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513192010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513192020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513210000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513231000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513291000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513292010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513292020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513310000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513391000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513392010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513392020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513410000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513491000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513492010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513492020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5513499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514110000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514120000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514191000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514192010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514192020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514193000', 'Other woven fabrics of polyester\nstaple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514210000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514220000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514230000', 'Other woven fabrics of polyester\nstaple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514291000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514292010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514292020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514300000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514410000', 'Of polyester staple fibres, plain\nweave', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514420000', '3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514430000', 'Other woven fabrics of polyester\nstaple fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514491000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514492010', 'Acrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514492020', 'Modacrylic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5514499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515111000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515121000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515131000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515191000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515211000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515221000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515291000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515911000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515991000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5515999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516111000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516112000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516121000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516122000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516131000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516132000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516141000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516142000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516211000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516212000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516221000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516222000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516231000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516232000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516241000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516242000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516249000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516311000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516312000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516321000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516322000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516331000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516341000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516411000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516421000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516422000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516431000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516432000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516439000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516441000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516449000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516911000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516921000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516922000', 'Of cellulose acetate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516931000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516941000', 'Of viscose rayon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5516949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5601210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5601220000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5601290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5601301000', 'Textile flock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5601309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602101000', 'Needleloom felt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602102000', 'Stitch-bonded fiber fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602211000', 'Piano felt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5602900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603111000', 'Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603121000', 'Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603131000', 'Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603141000', 'Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603910000', 'Weighing not more than 25 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603920000', 'Weighing more than 25 g/㎡ but not\nmore than 70 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603930000', 'Weighing more than 70 g/㎡ but not\nmore than 150 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5603940000', 'Weighing more than 150 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5604100000', 'Rubber thread and cord, textile\ncovered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5604901000', 'Imitation catguts consisting of textile\nyarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5604902000', 'High tenacity yarn of polyesters, of\nnylon or other polyamides or of\nviscose rayon, impregnated or coated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5604909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5605000000', 'Metallised yarn, whether or not\ngimped,being textile yarn, or strip or\nthe like of heading 54.04 or 54.05,\ncombined with metal in the form of\nthread, strip or powder or covered\nwith metal.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5606001000', 'Gimped yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5606002000', 'Chenille yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5606003000', 'Loop wale-yarn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5606009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607210000', 'Binder or baler twine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607410000', 'Binder or baler twine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607500000', 'Of other synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607901000', 'Of jute or other textile bast fibres of\nheading 53.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5607909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608111000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608191000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608901000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5608909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5609001000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5609002000', 'Of vegetable fibres, except cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5609003000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5609009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5701100000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5701900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702100000', '"Kelem", "Schumacks",\n"Karamanie" and similar hand-\nwoven rugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702200000', 'Floor coverings of coconut fibres\n(coir)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702320000', 'Of man-made textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702420000', 'Of man-made textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702490000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702500000', 'Other, not of pile construction, not\nmade up', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702910000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702920000', 'Of man-made textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5702990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5703100000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5703200000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5703300000', 'Of other man-made textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5703900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5704100000', 'Tiles, having a maximum surface\narea of 0.3㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5704200000', 'Tiles, having a maximum surface\narea exceeding 0.3 m² but not\nexceeding 1 m²', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5704900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5705000000', 'Other carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, whether or not made up.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801101000', 'Pile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801102000', 'Chenille fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801210000', 'Uncut weft pile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801220000', 'Cut corduroy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801230000', 'Other weft pile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801260000', 'Chenille fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801271000', 'Uncut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801272000', 'Cut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801310000', 'Uncut weft pile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801320000', 'Cut corduroy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801330000', 'Other weft pile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801360000', 'Chenille fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801371000', 'Uncut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801372000', 'Cut', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5801900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5802110000', 'Unbleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5802190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5802200000', 'Terry towelling and similar woven\nterry fabrics, of other textile\nmaterials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5802300000', 'Tufted textile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5803000000', 'Gauze, other than narrow fabrics of\nheading 58.06.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804101000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804102000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804103000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804210000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804291000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804292000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5804300000', 'Hand-made lace', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5805001000', 'Hand-woven tapestries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5805002000', 'Needle-worked tapestries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806101000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806102000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806103000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806200000', 'Other woven fabrics, containing by\nweight 5 % or more of elastomeric\nyarn or rubber thread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806310000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806320000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806391000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806392000', 'Of vegetable fibres, except cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5806400000', 'Fabrics consisting of warp without\nweft assembled by means of an\nadhesive (bolducs)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5807101000', 'Labels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5807109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5807901000', 'Labels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5807909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5808100000', 'Braids in the piece', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5808901000', 'Ornamental trimmings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5808909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5809000000', 'Woven fabrics of metal thread and\nwoven fabrics of metallised yarn of\nheading 56.05, of a kind used in\napparel, as furnishing fabrics or for\nsimilar purposes, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5810100000', 'Embroidery without visible ground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5810910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5810920000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5810990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5811001000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5811002000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5811003000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5811004000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5811009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5901100000', 'Textile fabrics coated with gum or\namylaceous substances, of a kind\nused for the outer covers of books or\nthe like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5901901000', 'Tracing cloth', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5901902000', 'Prepared painting canvas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5901903000', 'Buckram and similar stiffened textile\nfabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5902100000', 'Of nylon or other polyamides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5902200000', 'Of polyesters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5902900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5903100000', 'With poly (vinyl chloride)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5903200000', 'With polyurethane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5903900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5904100000', 'Linoleum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5904900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5905000000', 'Textile wall coverings.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5906100000', 'Adhesive tape of a width not\nexceeding 20 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5906910000', 'Knitted or crocheted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5906990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5907001000', 'Textile fabrics coated or impregnated\nwith oil or preparations with a basis\nof drying oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5907002000', 'Painted canvas being theatrical\nscenery, studio back-cloth or the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5907009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5908001000', 'Wicks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5908009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5909000000', 'Textile hosepiping and similar textile\ntubing, with or without lining,\narmour or accessories of other\nmaterials.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5910000000', 'Transmission or conveyor belts or\nbelting,of textile material, whether or\nnot impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated with plastics, or reinforced\nwith metal or other material.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911101000', 'Of narrow fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911200000', 'Bolting cloth, whether or not made\nup', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911310000', 'Weighing less than 650 g/㎡', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911320000', 'Weighing 650 g/㎡ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911400000', 'Straining cloth of a kind used in oil\npresses or the like, including that of\nhuman hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['5911900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001101000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001102000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001220000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001920000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6001990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6002400000', 'Containing by weight 5 % or more of\nelastomeric yarn but not containing\nrubber thread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6002900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6003100000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6003200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6003300000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6003400000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6003900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6004100000', 'Containing by weight 5 % or more of\nelastomeric yarn but not containing\nrubber thread', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6004900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005210000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005220000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005230000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005240000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005351000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005352000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005353000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005354000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005360000', 'Other, unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005370000', 'Other, dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005380000', 'Other, of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005390000', 'Other, printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005410000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005420000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005430000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005440000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6005900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006100000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006210000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006220000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006230000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006240000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006310000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006320000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006330000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006340000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006410000', 'Unbleached or bleached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006420000', 'Dyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006430000', 'Of yarns of different colours', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006440000', 'Printed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6006900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6101200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6101301000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6101302000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6101900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6102100000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6102200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6102301000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6102302000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6102900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103101000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103102000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103109000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103220000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103230000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103320000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103330000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103420000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6103430000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6103490000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104130000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104191000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104220000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104230000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104320000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104330000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104420000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104430000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104440000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104491000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104510000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104520000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104530000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104590000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104610000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104620000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104630000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6104690000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6105100000', 'Of cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6105201000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6105202000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6105901000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6105902000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6105909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6106100000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6106201000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6106202000', 'Of artificial fibres', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6106901000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6106902000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6106909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107110000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107121000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107122000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107190000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107221000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107222000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107991000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6107999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108111000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108112000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108191000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108221000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108222000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108310000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108321000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108322000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108921000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108922000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108991000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6108999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109101000', 'T-shirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109901010', 'T-shirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109902010', 'T-shirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109903010', 'T-shirts', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6109903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109909010', 'T-shirts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6109909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110110000', 'Of wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110120000', 'Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110200000', 'Of cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6110301000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110302000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110901000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6110909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111201000', 'Garments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111202000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111301000', 'Garments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111302000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111901000', 'Garments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6111902000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112110000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112120000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112190000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112201000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112310000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112410000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6112490000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6113001000', 'Of heading 59.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6113002000', 'Of heading 59.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6113003000', 'Of heading 59.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6114200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6114301000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6114302000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6114901000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6114909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115100000', 'Graduated compression hosiery (for\nexample, stockings for varicose\nveins)', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['6115210000', 'Of synthetic fibres, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115220000', 'Of synthetic fibres, measuring per\nsingle yarn 67 decitex or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115301000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115940000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115950000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115960000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6115990000', 'Of other textile materials', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6116100000', 'Impregnated, coated or covered with\nplastics or rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6116910000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6116921000', 'Working gloves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6116929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6116930000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6116990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117101000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117102000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117103000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117104000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117801000', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6117900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201120000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201131000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201132000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201190000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201910000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201920000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201931000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201932000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6201990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6202120000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202131000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202132000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202190000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202910000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202920000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202931000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202932000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6202990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6203120000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203190000', 'Of other textile fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203220000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203230000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203291000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6203320000', 'Of cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6203330000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6203421000', 'Of denim, including blue jeans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203430000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6203490000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204110000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204120000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204130000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204191000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204210000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204220000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204230000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204291000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204310000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204320000', 'Of cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204330000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204391000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204410000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204420000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204430000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204440000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204491000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204510000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204520000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204530000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204591000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204610000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204621000', 'Of denim, including blue jeans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204629000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6204630000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204691000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6204699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6205200000', 'Of cotton', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6205301000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6205302000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6205901000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6205902000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6205909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206100000', 'Of silk or silk waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206200000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206300000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206401000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206402000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6206900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207110000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207191000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207221000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207222000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207991000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207992000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207993010', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207993020', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6207999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208111000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208112000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208191000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208192000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208221000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208222000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208290000', 'Of other textile materials', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6208910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208921000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208922000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208991000', 'Of silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208992000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6208999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209201000', 'Garments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209202000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209301000', 'Garments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209302000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209901010', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6209902000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210101000', 'Of fabrics of heading 56.02', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210102000', 'Of fabrics of heading 56.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210201000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210202000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210203000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210301000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210302000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210303000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210401000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210402000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210403000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210501000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210502000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6210503000', 'Of fabrics of heading 59.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211111000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211121000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211201000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211321000', 'Judo, taekwondo and other oriental\nmartial arts uniforms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211331000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211332000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211391000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211421000', 'Judo, taekwondo and other oriental\nmartial arts uniforms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211429000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211431000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211432000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211491000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6211499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212101000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212102000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6212201000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212202000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212300000', 'Corselettes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6212900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6213200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6213900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6214100000', 'Of silk or silk waste', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6214200000', 'Of wool or fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6214300000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6214400000', 'Of artificial fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6214900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6215100000', 'Of silk or silk waste', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6215200000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6215900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6216001000', 'Impregnated, coated or covered with\nplastics or rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6216009000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6217100000', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6217900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6301100000', 'Electric blankets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6301200000', 'Blankets (other than electric\nblankets) and travelling rugs, of wool\nor fine animal hair', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6301300000', 'Blankets (other than electric\nblankets) and travelling rugs, of\ncotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6301400000', 'Blankets (other than electric\nblankets) and travelling rugs, of\nsynthetic fibers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6301900000', 'Other blankets and travelling rugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302101000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302210000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302220000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302310000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302320000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302390000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302400000', 'Table linen, knitted or crocheted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302510000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302530000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302590000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302600000', 'Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of\nterry towelling or similar terry\nfabrics, of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302930000', 'Of man-made fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6302990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303120000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303191000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303910000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303920000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6303990000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304110000', 'Knitted or crocheted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304200000', 'Bed nets specified in Subheading\nNote 1 to this Chapter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304910000', 'Knitted or crocheted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304920000', 'Not knitted or crocheted,of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304930000', 'Not knitted or crocheted, of synthetic\nfibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6304990000', 'Not knitted or crocheted, of other\ntextile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305100000', 'Of jute or of other textile bast fibres\nof heading 53.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305200000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305320000', 'Flexible intermediate bulk containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305330000', 'Other, of polyethylene or\npolypropylene strip or the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6305900000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306120000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306190000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306220000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306290000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306300000', 'Sails', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306401000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306409000', 'Of other textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306901000', 'Of cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306902000', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6306909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307100000', 'Floor-cloths, dish-cloths, dusters and\nsimilar cleaning cloths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307200000', 'Life-jackets and life-belts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307901000', 'Footwear lace', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307902000', 'Cloth wrappers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307903000', 'Dress patterns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6307909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6308000000', 'Sets consisting of woven fabric and\nyarn, whether or not with\naccessories, for making up into rugs,\ntapestries, embroidered table cloths\nor serviettes, or similar textile\narticles, put up in packings for retail\nsale.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6309000000', 'Worn clothing and other worn\narticles.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6310100000', 'Sorted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6310900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401100000', 'Footwear incorporating a protective\nmetal toe-cap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401921000', 'Ski-boots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401929010', 'Of rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401929090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401991010', 'Of rubber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6401999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402120000', 'Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear\nand snowboard boots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402200000', 'Footwear with upper straps or thongs\nassembled to the sole by means of\nplugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402911000', 'Footwear, protective against cold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402912000', 'Tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym\nshoes, training shoes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402991000', 'Sandals or similar footwear,\nproduced in one piece by moulding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402992000', 'Tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym\nshoes, training shoes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6402999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403120000', 'Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear\nand snowboard boots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403200000', 'Footwear with outer soles of leather,\nand uppers which consist of leather\nstraps across the instep and around\nthe big toe', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403400000', 'Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403511000', 'Dress shoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403591000', 'Dress shoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403911000', 'Dress shoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403912000', 'Mountaineering footwear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403913000', 'Lace-boots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403914000', 'Tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym\nshoes, training shoes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403991000', 'Dress shoes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403992000', 'Mountaineering footwear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403993000', 'Lace-boots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403994000', 'Tennis shoes, basketball shoes, gym\nshoes, training shoes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6403999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6404110000', 'Sports footwear; tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes, training\nshoes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6404191000', 'Slippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6404199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6404201000', 'Slippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6404209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6405100000', 'With uppers of leather or\ncomposition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6405200000', 'With uppers of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6405900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406101000', 'Uppers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406102000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406201000', 'Outer soles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406202000', 'Heels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406901000', 'Of wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406909010', 'Removable in-soles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406909020', 'Heel cushion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406909030', 'Gaiters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406909040', 'Leggings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6406909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6501000000', 'Hat-forms, hat bodies and hoods of\nfelt, neither blocked to shape nor\nwith made brims; plateaux and\nmanchons (including slit manchons),\nof felt.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6502000000', 'Hat-shapes, plaited or made by\nassembling strips of any material,\nneither blocked to shape, nor with', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'made brims, nor lined, nor trimmed.', '', ''], ['6504000000', 'Hats and other headgear, plaited or\nmade by assembling strips of any\nmaterial, whether or not lined or\ntrimmed.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505001000', 'Hair-nets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009011', 'Of synthetic fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009019', 'Of other fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009021', 'Sports cap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009022', 'Berets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6505009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6506100000', 'Safety headgear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6506910000', 'Of rubber or of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6506991000', 'Of leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6506992000', 'Of metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6506999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6507000000', 'Head-bands, lining, covers, hat\nfoundations, hat frames, peaks and\nchinstraps, for headgear.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6601100000', 'Garden or similar umbrellas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6601910000', 'Having a telescopic shaft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6601991000', 'Walking-stick umbrellas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6601992000', 'Sun umbrellas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6601999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6602001000', 'Walking-sticks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6602002000', 'seat-sticks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6602003000', 'Whips, riding-crops', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6602009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6603200000', 'Umbrella frames, including frames\nmounted on shafts (sticks)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6603900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6701000000', 'Skins and other parts of birds with\ntheir feathers or down, feathers, parts\nof feathers, down and articles thereof\n(other than goods of heading 05.05\nand worked quills and scapes).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6702100000', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6702901000', 'Of woven fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6702902000', 'Of paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6702909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6703001010', 'Washed, dressed, thinned', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6703001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6703009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704110000', 'Complete wigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704191000', 'Partial wigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704192000', 'False beards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704193000', 'False eyebrows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704194000', 'False eyelashes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704201000', 'Complete wigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704202000', 'Partial wigs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704203000', 'False beards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704204000', 'False eyebrows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704205000', 'False eyelashes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6704900000', 'Of other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6801000000', 'Setts,curbstones and flagstones, of\nnatural stone (except slate).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802100000', 'Tiles, cubes and similar articles,\nwhether or not rectangular (including\nsquare), the largest surface area of\nwhich is capable of being enclosed in\na square the side of which is less\nthan 7 cm; artificially coloured\ngranules, chippings and powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802211000', 'Marble', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802212000', 'Travertine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802213000', 'Alabaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802230000', 'Granite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802291000', 'Other calcareous stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802911000', 'Marble', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802912000', 'Travertine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802913000', 'Alabaster', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802920000', 'Other calcareous stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802930000', 'Granite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6802990000', 'Other stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6803001000', 'Inkstone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6803009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6804100000', 'Millstones and grindstones for\nmilling, grinding or pulping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6804210000', 'Of agglomerated synthetic or natural\ndiamond', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6804220000', 'Of other agglomerated abrasives or\nof ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6804230000', 'Of natural stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6804300000', 'Hand sharpening or polishing stones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6805100000', 'On a base of woven textile fabric\nonly', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6805200000', 'On a base of paper or paperboard\nonly', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6805300000', 'On a base of other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806101000', 'Slag wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806102000', 'Rock wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806103000', 'Ceramic fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806201000', 'Exfoliated vermiculite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806202000', 'Expanded clays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806204000', 'Expanded perlite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806901000', 'Fire proofing material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6806909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6807100000', 'In rolls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6807900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6808000000', 'Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and\nsimilar articles of vegetable fibre, of\nstraw or of shavings, chips, particles,\nsawdust or other waste, of wood,\nagglomerated with cement, plaster or\nother mineral binders.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6809110000', 'Faced or reinforced with paper or\npaperboard only', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6809190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6809900000', 'Other articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810111000', 'Blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810112000', 'Bricks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810191000', 'Tiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810192000', 'Flagstones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810193000', 'Roofing tiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810910000', 'Prefabricated structural components\nfor building or civil engineering', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810991000', 'Beams and girders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810992000', 'Pile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810993000', 'Electric pole', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810994000', 'Railway sleepers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810995000', 'Pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6810999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811401010', 'For roofs, ceilings, walls or floors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811402010', 'For roofs, ceilings, walls or floors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811402090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811403000', 'Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811409010', 'For roofs, ceilings, walls or floors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811409090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811810000', 'Corrugated sheets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811820000', 'Other sheets, panels, tiles and similar\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811891000', 'Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6811899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812801000', 'Clothing, clothing accessories,\nfootwear and headgear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812803000', 'Compressed asbestos fibre jointing,\nin sheets or rolls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812910000', 'Clothing, clothing accessories,\nfootwear and headgear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812920000', 'Paper, millboard and felt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812930000', 'Compressed asbestos fibre jointing,\nin sheets or rolls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6812990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813201010', 'For automobiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813202000', 'Clutch facing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813209010', 'For automobiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813810000', 'Brake linings and pads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813891000', 'Clutch facing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6813899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6814100000', 'Plates, sheets and strips of\nagglomerated or reconstituted mica,\nwhether or not on a support', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6814900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815101000', 'Non-electrical articles of graphite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815102000', 'Carbon fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815200000', 'Articles of peat', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815910000', 'Containing magnesite, dolomite or\nchromite', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6815990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6901001000', 'Bricks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6901002000', 'Blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6901003000', 'Tiles', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6901009010', 'Slabs and panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6901009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6902100000', 'Containing by weight, singly or\ntogether, more than 50 % of the\nelements Mg, Ca or Cr, expressed as\nMgO, CaO or Cr2O3', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6902200000', 'Containing by weight more than\n50 % of alumina (Al2O3), of\nsilica(SiO2) or of a mixture or\ncompound of these products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6902901000', 'Based upon silicon carbide or zircon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6902909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903101000', 'Retorts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903102010', 'For furnaces for production of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903103000', 'Reaction vessels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903104000', 'Muffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903105000', 'Nozzles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903106000', 'Plugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903107000', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903108000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903201000', 'Retorts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903202000', 'Crucibles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903203000', 'Reaction vessels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903204000', 'Muffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903205000', 'Nozzles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903206000', 'Plugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903207000', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903208000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903901000', 'Based upon silicon carbide or zircon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909010', 'Retorts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909020', 'Crucibles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909030', 'Reaction vessels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909040', 'Muffles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909050', 'Nozzles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909060', 'Plugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909070', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909080', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6903909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6904100000', 'Building bricks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6904900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6905100000', 'Roofing tiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6905901000', 'Chimney pots, cowls and chimney\nliners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6905902000', 'Architectural ornaments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6905909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6906001000', 'Pipes, conduits and guttering', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6906002000', 'Pipe fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6907210000', 'Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight not exceeding 0.5 %', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907221000', 'Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight exceeding 0.5 % but not\nexceeding 3 %', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907229000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907230000', 'Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight exceeding 10 %', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907301000', 'Of porcelain or china', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907309000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907401000', 'Of porcelain or china', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6907409000', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E3'], ['6909110000', 'Of porcelain or china', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['6909120000', 'Articles having a hardness equivalent\nto 9 or more on the Mohs scale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6909190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6909900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6910101000', 'Wash basins', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['6910102000', 'Baths', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6910103000', 'Water closet pans', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['6910104000', 'Urinals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6910109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6910900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911101000', 'Coffee sets or tea sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911102000', 'Bowls and dishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911901000', 'Household articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911902000', 'Toilet articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6911909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912001010', 'Coffee sets or tea sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912001020', 'Bowls and dishes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912002000', 'Household articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912003000', 'Toilet articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6912009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913101000', 'Statues, statuettes and busts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913109020', 'Ornamental tablewares', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913901000', 'Statues, statuettes and busts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913909020', 'Ornamental tablewares', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6913909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6914101000', 'Flower-pots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6914109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6914901000', 'Flower-pots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['6914909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7001001000', 'Mass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7001002000', 'Waste and scrap, cullet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002100000', 'Balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002201000', 'For the manufacture of quartz wares\nfor semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002311000', 'For the manufacture of quartz wares\nfor semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002320000', 'Of other glass having a linear\ncoefficient of expansion not\nexceeding 5×10-6 per Kelvin within\na temperature range of 0℃ to 300℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7002390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003121000', 'Not more than 2 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003122000', 'More than 2 ㎜ but not more than 3\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003123000', 'More than 3 ㎜ but not more than 4\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003124000', 'More than 4 ㎜ but not more than 5\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003125000', 'More than 5 ㎜ but not more than 6\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003126000', 'More than 6 ㎜ but not more than 8\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003127000', 'More than 8 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003191000', 'Not more than 2 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003192000', 'More than 2 ㎜ but not more than 3\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003193000', 'More than 3 ㎜ but not more than 4\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003194000', 'More than 4 ㎜ but not more than 5\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003195000', 'More than 5 ㎜ but not more than 6\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003196000', 'More than 6 ㎜ but not more than 8\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003197000', 'More than 8 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003200000', 'Wired sheets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7003300000', 'Profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004201000', 'Not more than 2 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004202000', 'More than 2 ㎜ but not more than 3\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004203000', 'More than 3 ㎜ but not more than 4\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004204000', 'More than 4 ㎜ but not more than 5\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004205000', 'More than 5 ㎜ but not more than 6\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004206000', 'More than 6 ㎜ but not more than 8', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', '㎜ in thickness', '', ''], ['7004207000', 'More than 8 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004901000', 'Not more than 2 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004902000', 'More than 2 ㎜ but not more than 3\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004903000', 'More than 3 ㎜ but not more than 4\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004904000', 'More than 4 ㎜ but not more than 5\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004905000', 'More than 5 ㎜ but not more than 6\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004906000', 'More than 6 ㎜ but not more than 8\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7004907000', 'More than 8 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005101010', 'Not more than 4 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005101020', 'More than 4 mm but not more than 6\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005101030', 'More than 6 mm but not more than 8\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005101040', 'More than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005102010', 'Not more than 4 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005102020', 'More than 4 mm but not more than 6\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005102030', 'More than 6 mm but not more than 8\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005102040', 'More than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005109010', 'Not more than 4 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005109020', 'More than 4 mm but not more than 6\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005109030', 'More than 6 mm but not more than 8\nmm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005109040', 'More than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005211000', 'Not more than 2 ㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005212000', 'More than 2 ㎜ but not more than 3\n㎜ in thickness', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['7005213000', 'More than 3 ㎜ but not more than 4\n㎜ in thickness', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['7005214000', 'More than 4 ㎜ but not more than 5\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005215000', 'More than 5 ㎜ but not more than 6', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', '㎜ in thickness', '', ''], ['7005216000', 'More than 6 ㎜ but not more than 8\n㎜ in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005217010', 'Not more than 10 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005217020', 'More than 10 mm but not more than\n12 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005217030', 'More than 12 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291010', 'For PDP (plasma display panel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291020', 'For blank mask used in the\nmanufacture of semiconductor, or of\nFPD (flat panel display)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291030', 'For OLED (organic light-emitting\ndisplay)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291040', 'For LCD (liquid cristal display)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291091', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291092', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005291099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292010', 'For PDP (plasma display panel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292020', 'For blank mask used in the\nmanufacture of semiconductor, or of\nFPD (flat panel display)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292030', 'For OLED (organic light-emitting\ndisplay)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292091', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292092', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005292099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005293010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005293020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005293090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005294010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005294020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005294090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005295010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005295020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005295090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005296010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005296020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005296090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005297010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005297020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005297090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005298010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005298020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005298090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005299010', 'Clear and transparent glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005299020', 'Extra clear low-iron glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7005300000', 'Wired glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7006001000', 'For PDP (plasma display panel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7006002000', 'For blank mask used in the\nmanufacture of semiconductor, or of\nFPD (flat panel display)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7006003000', 'For OLED (organic light-emitting\ndisplay)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7006004000', 'For LCD (liquid cristal display)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7006009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007111000', 'Not more than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007112000', 'More than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007191000', 'Not more than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007192000', 'More than 8 mm in thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007211000', 'Not more than 12 mm in total\nthickness, including film thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007212000', 'More than 12 mm in total thickness,\nincluding film thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007291000', 'Not more than 12 mm in total\nthickness, including film thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7007292000', 'More than 12 mm in total thickness,\nincluding film thickness', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7008000000', 'Multiple-walled insulating units of\nglass.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7009100000', 'Rear-view mirrors for vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7009910000', 'Unframed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7009920000', 'Framed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7010100000', 'Ampoules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7010200000', 'Stoppers, lids and other closures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7010900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7011100000', 'For electric lighting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7011201000', 'Color', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7011209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7011900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013100000', 'Of glass-ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013220000', 'Of lead crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013280000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013330000', 'Of lead crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013370000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013410000', 'Of lead crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013420000', 'Of glass having a linear coefficient\nof expansion not exceeding 5 x 10-6\nper Kelvin within a temperature\nrange of 0℃ to 300℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013910000', 'Of lead crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7013990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7014001000', 'Of sealed beam lamp', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7014009010', 'Signalling glassware', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7014009020', 'Optical elements of glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7015100000', 'Glasses for corrective spectacles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7015901000', 'For sun glasses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7015902000', 'Clock or watch glasses and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7015909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7016100000', 'Glass cubes and other glass\nsmallwares, whether or not on a\nbacking, for mosaics or similar\ndecorative purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7016901000', 'Paving blocks, slabs, bricks, squares,\ntiles and other articles of pressed or\nmoulded glass, whether or not wired,\nof a kind used for building or\nconstruction purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7016909010', 'Leaded lights', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7016909020', 'Stained glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7016909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7017100000', 'Of fused quartz or other fused silica', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7017200000', 'Of other glass having a linear\ncoefficient of expansion not\nexceeding 5 x 10-6 per Kelvin within\na temperature range of 0℃ to 300℃', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7017900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018101000', 'Beads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018102000', 'Imitation pearls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018103000', 'Imitation precious and semi-precious\nstones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018104000', 'Imitation coral', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018200000', 'Glass microspheres not exceeding 1\n㎜ in diameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018901000', 'Glass eyes other than prosthetic\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7018909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019110000', 'Chopped strands, of a length of not\nmore than 50 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019120000', 'Rovings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019310000', 'Mats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019320000', 'Thin sheets (voiles)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019400000', 'Woven fabrics of rovings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019510000', 'Of a width not exceeding 30 ㎝', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019520000', 'Of a width exceeding 30 ㎝, plain\nweave, weighing less than 250 g/㎡,\nof filaments measuring per single\nyarn not more than 136 tex', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019901000', 'Glass wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7019909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020001011', 'Quartz reactor tubes and holders\ndesigned for insertion into diffusion\nand oxidation furnaces for\nproduction of semiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020001012', 'Quartz crucibles for furnace of\nproduction of semiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020001013', 'For the manufacture of quartz wares\nfor semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020001019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7020009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7101101000', 'Unworked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7101102000', 'Worked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7101210000', 'Unworked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7101220000', 'Worked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7102100000', 'unsorted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7102210000', 'Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved\nor bruted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7102290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7102310000', 'Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'or bruted', '', ''], ['7102390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103100000', 'Unworked or simply sawn or roughly\nshaped', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103911000', 'Industrial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103919010', 'Rubies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103919020', 'Sapphires', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103919030', 'Emeralds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103991000', 'Industrial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103999010', 'Opal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103999020', 'Jade', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103999030', 'Chalcedony', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103999040', 'Rocky crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7103999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104100000', 'piezo-electric quartz', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104201000', 'Diamonds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104901010', 'Diamonds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104901020', 'Artificial crystal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104909010', 'Diamonds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7104909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7105101000', 'Natural', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7105102000', 'Synthetic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7105901000', 'Of garnet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7105909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106100000', 'Powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106911000', 'Containing by weight 99.99 % or\nmore of silver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106921000', 'Bars, rods and shapes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106922000', 'Plates, sheets and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106923000', 'Wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7106929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7107001000', 'Bars, rods and shapes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7107002000', 'Plates, sheets and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7107003000', 'Wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7107004000', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7107009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108110000', 'Powder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108121000', 'Lumps, billets and grains', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108131010', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108131090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108139010', 'Bars, rods and shapes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108139020', 'Plates, sheets and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108139090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7108200000', 'Monetary', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7109000000', 'Base metals or silver, clad with gold,\nnot further worked than semi-\nmanufactured.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110110000', 'Unwrought or in powder form', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110210000', 'Unwrought or in powder form', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110310000', 'Unwrought or in powder form', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110410000', 'Unwrought or in powder form', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7110490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7111000000', 'Base metals, silver or gold, clad with\nplatinum, not further worked than\nsemi-manufactured.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112300000', 'Ash containing precious metal or\nprecious metal compounds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112911000', 'Of residues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112921000', 'Of residues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112991000', 'Of residues', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112992000', 'Of waste, paring and scrap of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7112999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113110000', 'Of silver, whether or not plated or\nclad with other precious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113191000', 'Of platinum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113192000', 'Of gold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113201000', 'Platinum-clad', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113202000', 'Gold-clad', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113203000', 'Silver-clad', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7113209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114111000', 'For table', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114112000', 'For toilet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114113000', 'For office and desk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114114000', 'For use by smokers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114191000', 'For table', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114193000', 'For office and desk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114201000', 'For table', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114203000', 'For office and desk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114204000', 'For use by smokers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7114209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115100000', 'Catalysts in the form of wire cloth or\ngrill, of platinum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115901010', 'Platinum crucible', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115909010', 'Of gold, including metals clad with\ngold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115909020', 'Of silver, including metals clad with\nsilver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7115909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7116101000', 'Of natural pearls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7116102000', 'Of cultured pearls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7116201000', 'Industrial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7116209010', 'For personal adornment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7116209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117110000', 'Cuff-links and studs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117191000', 'Necklace', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117192000', 'Bracelet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117193000', 'Earring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117194000', 'Brooch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117195000', 'Ring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117196000', 'Chains for personal adornment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7117900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7118100000', 'Coin (other than gold coin), not', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'being legal tender', '', ''], ['7118901000', 'Gold coin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7118902000', 'Silver coin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7118909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7201101000', 'For casting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7201102000', 'For steel manufacture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7201109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7201200000', 'Non-alloy pig iron containing by\nweight more than 0.5 % of\nphosphorus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7201500000', 'Alloy pig iron; spiegeleisen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202110000', 'Containing by weight more than 2 %\nof carbon.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202210000', 'Containing by weight more than\n55 % of silicon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202291000', 'Containing by weight 2 % or more of\nmagnesium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202300000', 'Ferro-silico-manganese', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202410000', 'Containing by weight more than 4 %\nof carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202500000', 'Ferro-silico-chromium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202600000', 'Ferro-nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202700000', 'Ferro-molybdenum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202800000', 'Ferro-tungsten and ferro-silico-\ntungsten', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202910000', 'Ferro-titanium and ferro-silico-\ntitanium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202920000', 'Ferro-vanadium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202930000', 'Ferro-niobium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202991000', 'Ferro-phosphorus (iron\nphosphide),containing by weight\n15 % or more of phosphorus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7202999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7203100000', 'Ferrous products obtained by direct\nreduction of iron ore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7203900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204100000', 'Waste and scrap of cast iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204210000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204300000', 'Waste and scrap of tinned iron or\nsteel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204410000', 'Turnings, shavings, chips, milling\nwaste, sawdust, filings, trimmings\nand stampings whether or not in\nbundles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7204500000', 'Remelting scrap ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7205101000', 'Shot', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7205102000', 'Grit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7205109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7205210000', 'Of alloy steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7205290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7206100000', 'Ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7206900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207111000', 'Blooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207112000', 'Billets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207121000', 'Slabs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207122000', 'Sheet bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207201000', 'Blooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207202000', 'Billets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207203000', 'Slabs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7207209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208101000', 'Of a thickness of 4.75 ㎜ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208109000', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208251000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208261000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208269000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208271000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208279000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208361000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208369000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208371000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208379000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208381000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208389000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208391000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208400000', 'Not in coils, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, with patterns in relief', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208511000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208521000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208531000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208539000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208541000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208549000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7208900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209151000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209161000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209169000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209171000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209179000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209181000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209189000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209251000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209259000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209261000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209269000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209271000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209279000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209281000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209289000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7209900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210110000', 'Of a thickness of 0.5 ㎜ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210120000', 'Of a thickness of less than 0.5 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210200000', 'Plated or coated with lead, including\nterneplate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210301000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210410000', 'Corrugated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210491010', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210491090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210499010', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210499090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210500000', 'Plated or coated with chromium\noxides or with chromium and\nchromium oxides', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210610000', 'Plated or coated with aluminium-\nzinc alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210701000', 'Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210702000', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75mm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210901000', 'Plated or coated with nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210902000', 'Plated or coated with copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7210909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211130000', 'Rolled on four faces or in a closed\nbox pass, of a width exceeding 150\n㎜ and a thickness of not less than 4\n㎜, not in coils and without patterns\nin relief', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211141000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211191000', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211231000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211291000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211901000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7211909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212101000', 'Of a thickness of 0.5 ㎜ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212102000', 'Of a thickness of less than 0.5 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212201000', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212301010', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212309010', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212401000', 'Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212402000', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75mm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212501000', 'Plated or coated with nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212502000', 'Plated or coated with copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7212600000', 'Clad', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213100000', 'Containing indentations, ribs,\ngrooves or other deformations\nproduced during the rolling process', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213200000', 'Other, of free-cutting steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213911010', 'Containing by weight 0.25 % or\nmore of carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213991010', 'Containing by weight 0.25 % or\nmore of carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7213999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214100000', 'Forged', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214201000', 'Concrete reinforcing bar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214300000', 'Other, of free-cutting steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214910000', 'Of rectangular (other than\nsquare)cross-section', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214991000', 'Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7214999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7215100000', 'Of free-cutting steel, not further\nworked than cold-formed or cold-\nfinished', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7215500000', 'Other, not further worked than cold-\nformed or cold-finished', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7215900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216101000', 'U section', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216102000', 'I sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216103000', 'H section', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216210000', 'L sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216220000', 'T sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216310000', 'U sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216320000', 'I sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216333000', 'Less than 300 ㎜ in height', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216334000', '300 mm or more but not more than\n600 mm in height', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216335000', 'More than 600 ㎜ in height', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216401000', 'L sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216402000', 'T sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216500000', 'Other angles, shapes and sections,\nnot further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216610000', 'Obtained from flat-rolled products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216910000', 'Cold-formed or cold-finished from\nflat-rolled products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7216990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7217100000', 'Not plated or coated, whether or not\npolished', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7217200000', 'Plated or coated with zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7217301000', 'Plated or coated with copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7217309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7217900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218101000', 'Ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218911000', 'Slabs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218912000', 'Sheet bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218991000', 'Blooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218992000', 'Billets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7218999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219111010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219111090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219121010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219121090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219131010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219131090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219141010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219141090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219149000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219211010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219221010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219221090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219231010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219231090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219241010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219241090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219249000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219311010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219321010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219331010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219331090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219341010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219341090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219351010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219351090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219359000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219901010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7219909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220111010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220111090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220121010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220121090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220201010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220901010', 'Containing nickel less than 6% and\ncontaining manganese at least 3% by\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7220909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7221000000', 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in\nirregularly wound coils, of stainless\nsteel.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7222110000', 'Of circular cross-section', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7222190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7222200000', 'Bars and rods, not further worked\nthan cold-formed or cold-finished', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7222300000', 'Other bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7222400000', 'Angles, shapes and sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7223000000', 'Wire of stainless steel.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224101000', 'Ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224901000', 'Blooms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224902000', 'Billets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224903000', 'Slabs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224904000', 'Sheet bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7224909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225110000', 'Grain-oriented', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225301000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225309010', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225309091', 'Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225309092', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75mm\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225309099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225401000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225409010', 'Of a tensile strength of 490MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225409091', 'Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225409092', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75mm\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225409099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225501000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225911000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225919010', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225919090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225921000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225929011', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225929019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225929091', 'Of a tensile strength of 340MPa or\nmore', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225929099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225991000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7225999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226110000', 'Grain-oriented', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226200000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226911000', 'Of a thickness of 4.75mm or more\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226912000', 'Of a thickness of less than 4.75mm\nand containing by weight 0.0008%\nor more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226920000', 'Not further worked than cold-rolled\n(cold- reduced)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226991000', 'Amorphous alloy steel thin sheet of a\nthickness of less than 100㎛', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226992000', 'Electrolytically plated or coated with\nzinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226993000', 'Otherwise plated or coated with zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7226999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227100000', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227200000', 'Of silico-manganese steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227901000', 'Of heat-resisting steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227909010', 'Containing by weight 0.0008% or\nmore but less than 0.003% of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227909020', 'Containing by weight 0.003% or\nmore of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7227909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228100000', 'Bars and rods, of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228200000', 'Bars and rods, of silico-manganese\nsteel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228301000', 'Containing by weight 0.0008% or\nmore of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228401000', 'Containing by weight 0.0008% or\nmore of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228500000', 'Other bars and rods, not further\nworked than cold-formed or cold-\nfinished', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228601000', 'Concrete reinforcing bar, containing\nby weight 0.0008% or more of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228701010', 'Containing by weight 0.0008% or\nmore of boron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228701090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7228800000', 'Hollow drill bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229200000', 'Of silico-manganese steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229901010', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229902010', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229909010', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7229909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301101000', 'U type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301201000', 'U sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301202000', 'H sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301203000', 'I sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7301209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302101010', 'Heat treated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302102010', 'Heat treated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302103010', 'Heat treated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302103090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302104010', 'Heat treated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302104090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302300000', 'Switch blades, crossing frogs, point\nrods and other crossing pieces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302400000', 'Fish-plates and sole plates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7302900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7303001010', 'Of ductile cast iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7303001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7303002000', 'Hollow profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304110000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304220000', 'Drill pipe of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304230000', 'Other drill pipe', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304240000', 'Other, of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304310000', 'Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304410000', 'Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304510000', 'Cold-drawn or cold-rolled(cold-\nreduced)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7304900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305111000', 'More than 406.4 mm but not more\nthan 1,422.4 mm in external diameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305112000', 'More than 1,422.4 mm in external\ndiameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305120000', 'Other, longitudinally welded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305200000', 'Casing of a kind used in drilling for\noil or gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305311000', 'Submerged arc welded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305312000', 'Electric resistance welded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7305900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306110000', 'Welded, of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306211000', 'Casing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306212000', 'Tubing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306291000', 'Casing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306292000', 'Tubing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306301010', 'Zinc galvanized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306301020', 'Plated or clad with metal other than\nzinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306301030', 'Coated with non-metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306302010', 'Zinc galvanized', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306302020', 'Plated or clad with metal other than\nzinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306302030', 'Coated with non-metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306302090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306401000', 'More than 114.3 ㎜ in external\ndiameter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306402000', 'Not more than 114.3 ㎜ in external', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'diameter', '', ''], ['7306500000', 'Other, welded, of circular cross-\nsection, of other alloy steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306611010', 'Galvanized zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306611090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306612000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306613000', 'Of other alloy steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306691010', 'Galvanized zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306691090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306692000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306693000', 'Of other alloy steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306901000', 'Double wall steel tube', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7306909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307110000', 'Of non-malleable cast iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307210000', 'Flanges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307221000', 'Threaded sleeves, of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307230000', 'Butt welding fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307910000', 'Flanges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307921000', 'Threaded sleeves, of iron or steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307930000', 'Butt welding fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307991000', 'Threaded, whether or not plated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7307999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308100000', 'Bridges and bridge-sections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308200000', 'Towers and lattice masts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308300000', 'Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308400000', 'Equipment for scaffolding,\nshuttering, propping or pitpropping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308901000', 'Lock-gates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7308909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7309000000', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers for any material (other\nthan compressed or liquefied gas), of\niron or steel, of a capacity exceeding\n300 ℓ, whether or not lined or heat-\ninsulated, but not fitted with', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'mechanical or thermal equipment.', '', ''], ['7310100000', 'Of a capacity of 50 ℓ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7310210000', 'Cans which are to be closed by\nsoldering or crimping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7310290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7311001000', 'Not more than 30 ℓ in capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7311002000', 'More than 30 ℓ but not more than\n100 ℓ in capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7311003000', 'More than 100 ℓ in capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312101011', 'Fitted with fittings or made up into\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312101019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312101091', 'Fitted with fittings or made up into\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312101092', 'Steel tire cords', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312101099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312102011', 'Fitted with fitting or made up into\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312102019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312102091', 'Fitted with fittings or made up into\narticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312102092', 'Steel tire cords', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312102099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7312900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7313001000', 'Barbed iron or steel wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7313009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314120000', 'Endless bands for machinery, of\nstainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314140000', 'Other woven cloth, of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314200000', 'Grill, netting and fencing, welded at\nthe intersection, of wire with a\nmaximum cross-sectional dimension\nof 3 ㎜ or more and having a mesh\nsize of 100㎠ or more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314310000', 'Plated or coated with zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314410000', 'Plated or coated with zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314420000', 'Coated with plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7314500000', 'Expanded metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315110000', 'Roller chain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315120000', 'Other chain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315190000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315200000', 'Skid chain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315810000', 'Stud-link', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315820000', 'Other, welded link', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315890000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7315900000', 'Other parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7316001000', 'Anchors and grapnels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7316002000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317001011', 'Plated, coated or painted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317001019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317001021', 'Plated, coated or painted', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317001029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317002000', 'Tacks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317003000', 'Drawing or office working pins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317004000', 'Corrugated nails', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317005000', 'Staples', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7317009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318110000', 'Coach screws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318120000', 'Other wood screws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318130000', 'Screw hooks and screw rings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318140000', 'Self-tapping screws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318151000', 'Machine screws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318152000', 'Bolts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318153000', 'Bolts and nuts (in set)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318159000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318160000', 'Nuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318210000', 'Spring washers and other lock\nwashers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318220000', 'Other washers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318230000', 'Rivets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318240000', 'Cotters and cotter-pins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7318290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319401000', 'Safety pins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319402000', 'Pin used for measuring or checking\nsemiconductor wafers or device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319901010', 'Sewing needles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319901020', 'Darning needles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7319909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320101000', 'Leaf-springs for automobiles', '8.0%', 'E0'], ['7320102000', 'Leaf-springs for railway locomotives\nand rolling stocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320201000', 'For automobiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320202000', 'For shock-absorbers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320203000', 'For buffers on rolling stock\ncouplings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320204000', 'For upholstery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320901000', 'Flat spiral springs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7320909000', 'Other springs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321110000', 'For gas fuel or for both gas and other\nfuels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321120000', 'For liquid fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321190000', 'Other, including appliances for solid\nfuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321810000', 'For gas fuel or for both gas and other\nfuels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321820000', 'For liquid fuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321890000', 'Other, including appliances for solid\nfuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7321900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322111000', 'Radiators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322112000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322191000', 'Radiators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322192000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322901000', 'Solar collector and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322909010', 'Air heater', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322909020', 'Hot air distributor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7322909030', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323100000', 'Iron or steel wool; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves\nand the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323910000', 'Of cast iron, not enamelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323920000', 'Of cast iron, enamelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323930000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323940000', 'Of iron (other than cast iron) or steel,\nenamelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7323990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324101000', 'Sinks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324102000', 'Wash basins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324210000', 'Of cast iron, whether or not\nenamelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324291000', 'Of stainless steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324901000', 'Toilet sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324908000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7324909000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325100000', 'Of non-malleable cast iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325910000', 'Grinding balls and similar articles for\nmills', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325991000', 'Of cast iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325992000', 'Of cast steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325993000', 'Of alloy steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7325999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7326110000', 'Grinding balls and similar articles for\nmills', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7326190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7326200000', 'Articles of iron or steel wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7326901000', 'Bobbins for textile machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7326909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7401001000', 'Copper mattes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7401002000', 'Cement copper (precipitated copper)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7402001000', 'Unrefined copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7402002000', 'Copper anodes for electrolytic\nrefining', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403110000', 'Cathodes and sections of cathodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403120000', 'Wire-bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403130000', 'Billets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403191000', 'Slabs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403192000', 'Ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403210000', 'Copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403220000', 'Copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403291010', 'Copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403291020', 'Copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7403299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7404000000', 'Copper waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7405000000', 'Master alloys of copper.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7406100000', 'Powders of non-lamellar structure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7406201000', 'Powders of lamellar structure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7406202000', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407100000', 'Of refined copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407210000', 'Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407291000', 'Of copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407292010', 'Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407292020', 'Of copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7407299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408110000', 'Of which the maximum cross-\nsectional dimension exceeds 6 ㎜', '5.0%', 'E3'], ['7408190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408210000', 'Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408221000', 'Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408222000', 'Of copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408291000', 'Of copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7408299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409111000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409191000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409211000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409291000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409311000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409391000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409401010', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409402010', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409402090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409901000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7409909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410110000', 'Of refined copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410120000', 'Of copper alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410211000', 'Suitable for manufacturing printed\ncircuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410221000', 'Suitable for manufacturing printed\ncircuit board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7410229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411100000', 'Of refined copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411210000', 'Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411221000', 'Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411222000', 'Of copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411291000', 'Of copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7411299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7412100000', 'Of refined copper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7412200000', 'Of copper alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7413000000', 'Stranded wire, cable, plaited bands\nand the like, of copper, not\nelectrically insulated.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415101000', 'Plated, rolled or coated with precious\nmetal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415210000', 'Washers (including spring washers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415330000', 'Screws; bolts and nuts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7415390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418101000', 'Pot scourers and scouring or\npolishing pads, gloves and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418109010', 'Table, kitchen articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418109020', 'Solar collectors of a kind used for\ndomestic purposes, non-electric', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418109030', 'Other household articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418109091', 'Of solar collectors of a kind used for\ndomestic purposes, non-electric', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418109099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418201000', 'Sanitary ware', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7418202000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419101000', 'Chain', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419102000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419910000', 'Cast, moulded, stamped or forged,\nbut not further worked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419991010', 'Cloth', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419992000', 'Copper springs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7419999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7501100000', 'Nickel mattes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7501201010', 'Containing by weight 88 % or more\nof nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7501201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7501209010', 'Containing by weight 88 % or more\nof nickel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7501209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7502101000', 'Cathode', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7502109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7502200000', 'Nickel alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7503000000', 'Nickel waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7504001000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7504002000', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7505110000', 'Of nickel, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7505120000', 'Of nickel alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7505210000', 'Of nickel, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7505220000', 'Of nickel alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7506101000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7506102000', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7506201000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7506202000', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7507110000', 'Of nickel, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7507120000', 'Of nickel alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7507200000', 'Tube or pipe fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7508100000', 'Cloth, grill and netting, of nickel\nwire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7508901000', 'Electro-plating anodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7508902010', 'Of nickel, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7508902020', 'Of nickel alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7508909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7601100000', 'Aluminium, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7601201000', 'Casting alloy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7601202000', 'Billet', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7601209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7602000000', 'Aluminium waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7603100000', 'Powders of non-lamellar structure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7603201000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7603202000', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604101000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604102010', 'Hollow profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604210000', 'Hollow profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604291000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7604299000', 'Other profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7605110000', 'Of which the maximum cross-\nsectional dimension exceeds 7 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7605190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7605210000', 'Of which the maximum cross-\nsectional dimension exceeds 7 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7605290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606111000', 'Containing not less than 99.99 % by\nweight of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606120000', 'Of aluminium alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606911000', 'Containing not less than 99.99 % by\nweight of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7606920000', 'Of aluminium alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607111000', 'Containing not less than 99.99 % by\nweight of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607191000', 'Containing not less than 99.99 % by\nweight of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607201000', 'Containing not less than 99.99 % by\nweight of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7607209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7608100000', 'Of aluminium, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7608200000', 'Of aluminium alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7609000000', 'Aluminium tube or pipe fittings (for\nexample, couplings, elbows,\nsleeves).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7610100000', 'Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7610901000', 'Structures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7610908000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7610909000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7611000000', 'Aluminium reservoirs, tanks, vats\nand similar containers, for any\nmaterial (other than compressed or\nliquefied gas), of a capacity\nexceeding 300 ℓ, whether or not\nlined or heat-insulated, but not fitted\nwith mechanical or thermal\nequipment.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7612100000', 'Collapsible tubular containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7612901000', 'Rigid tubular containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7612909010', 'Less than 1 ℓ capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7612909020', 'Not less than 1 ℓ but less than 20 ℓ\nin capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7612909030', 'Not less than 20 ℓ in capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7613001000', 'For compressed gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7613002000', 'For liquefied gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7614100000', 'With steel core', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7614900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615101000', 'Pot scourers and scouring or\npolishing pads, gloves and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615109010', 'Solar collectors and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615109020', 'Table, kitchen articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615109030', 'Other household articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615109090', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615201000', 'Sanitary ware', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7615202000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7616100000', 'Nails, tacks, staples (other than those\nof heading 83.05), screws, bolts,\nnuts, screw hooks, rivets, cotters,\ncotter-pins, washers and similar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'articles', '', ''], ['7616910000', 'Cloth, grill, netting and fencing, of\naluminium wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7616991000', 'Bobbins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7616999010', 'Aluminium pouch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7616999020', 'Aluminium knob', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7616999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801101000', 'Containing by weight 99.99 % or\nmore of lead', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801910000', 'Containing by weight antimony as\nthe principal other element', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801991000', 'Unrefined lead', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801992010', 'Lead-tin alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7801992090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7802000000', 'Lead waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7804111000', 'Sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7804112000', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7804190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7804201000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7804202000', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806001000', 'Lead containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806002000', 'Electro-plating anodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806003010', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806003020', 'Profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806003030', 'Wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806004000', 'Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings\n(for example, couplings, elbows,\nsleeves).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7806009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7901110000', 'Containing by weight 99.99 % or\nmore of zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7901120000', 'Containing by weight less than\n99.99 % of zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7901201000', 'Zinc-aluminium alloy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7901209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7902000000', 'Zinc waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7903100000', 'Zinc dust', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7903901000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7903902000', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7904001000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7904002000', 'Profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7904003000', 'Wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7905001000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7905002000', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7907001000', 'Gutters, roof capping, skylight\nframes and other fabricated building\ncomponents', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7907002010', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7907002020', 'Tube or pipe fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7907009010', 'Electro-plating anodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['7907009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8001100000', 'Tin, not alloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8001200000', 'Tin alloys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8002000000', 'Tin waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8003001010', 'Unalloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8003001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8003002010', 'Unalloyed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8003002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007001000', 'Electro-plating anodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007002000', 'Plates, sheets and strip, of a\nthickness exceeding 0.2 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007003010', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007003021', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007003022', 'Flakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007004000', 'Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings\n(for example, couplings, elbows,\nsleeves).', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8007009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101100000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101940000', 'Unwrought tungsten, including bars\nand rods obtained simply by\nsintering', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101961000', 'Spiral filament for electric bulbs or\nelectronic bulbs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101969000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101970000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101991010', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101991020', 'Profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101991030', 'Plates, sheets and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101991040', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8101999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102100000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102940000', 'Unwrought molybdenum, including\nbars and rods obtained simply by\nsintering', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102951000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102952000', 'Profiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102953000', 'Plates, sheets and strip', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102954000', 'Foil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102961000', 'Spiral filament for electric bulbs or\nelectronic bulbs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102969000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102970000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8102990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8103201000', 'Unwrought', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8103202000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8103300000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8103900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104110000', 'Containing at least 99.8 % by weight\nof magnesium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104200000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104301000', 'Raspings, turnings and granules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104302000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104901000', 'Bars and rods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8104909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8105201000', 'Unwrought cobalt', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8105202000', 'Cobalt mattes and other intermediate\nproducts of cobalt metallurgy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8105203000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8105300000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8105900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8106001010', 'Unwrought bismuth', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8106001020', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8106001030', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8106009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8107201000', 'Unwrought cadmium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8107202000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8107300000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8107900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108201000', 'Unwrought', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108202000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108300000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108901000', 'Plates and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108902000', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8108909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109201000', 'Unwrought', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109202000', 'Powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109300000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109901010', 'Tubes and pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109901020', 'Plates, sheets and strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109901030', 'Bars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8109909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8110100000', 'Unwrought antimony; powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8110200000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8110900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8111000000', 'Manganese and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112120000', 'Unwrought; powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112130000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112210000', 'Unwrought; powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112220000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112510000', 'Unwrought; powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112520000', 'Waste and scrap', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112921000', 'Germanium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112922000', 'Vanadium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112923000', 'Gallium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112924000', 'Hafnium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112925000', 'Indium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112926000', 'Niobium(Columbium)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112927000', 'Rhenium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112991000', 'Germanium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112992000', 'Vanadium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112993000', 'Gallium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112994000', 'Hafnium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112995000', 'Indium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112996000', 'Niobium(Columbium)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112997000', 'Rhenium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8112999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8113000000', 'Cermets and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201100000', 'Spades and shovels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201300000', 'Mattocks, picks, hoes and rakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201400000', 'Axes, bill hooks and similar hewing\ntools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201500000', 'Secateurs and similar one-handed\npruners and shears (including poultry\nshears)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201600000', 'Hedge shears, two-handed pruning\nshears and similar two-handed shears', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201901000', 'Scythes and sickles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201904000', 'Forks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8201909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202101000', 'For wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202102000', 'For metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202200000', 'Band saw blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202310000', 'With working part of steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202391000', 'With working part of tungsten\ncarbide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202392010', 'For machines sawing semiconductor\nwafer or device into each unit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202392090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202393000', 'With working part of other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202399000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202400000', 'Chain saw blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202911000', 'Hack-saw blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202991000', 'For cutting sapphire ingots', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8202999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203101000', 'For saw blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203201000', 'Plier (including cutting pliers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203202000', 'Pincer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203203000', 'Tweezers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203300000', 'Metal cutting shears and similar tools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203401000', 'Pipe cutters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203402000', 'Bolt croppers and clippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203403000', 'Perforating punches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8203409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8204110000', 'Non-adjustable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8204120000', 'Adjustable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8204200000', 'Interchangeable spanner sockets,\nwith or without handles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205101000', 'For drilling', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205102000', 'For threading', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205103000', 'For tapping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205200000', 'Hammers and sledge hammers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205300000', 'Planes, chisels, gouges and similar\ncutting tools for working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205400000', 'Screwdrivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205510000', 'Household tools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205591000', "Glaziers' diamond", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205592000', 'Soldering irons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205593000', 'Grease guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205595000', 'Tools for mining and public works', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205596000', 'Tools for cement workers and\npainters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205597000', "Watch makers' tools", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205600000', 'Blow lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205701000', 'Vices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205702000', 'Clamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205901000', 'Anvils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205902000', 'Hand or pedal-operated grinding\nwheels with frameworks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205909010', 'Sets of articles of two or more\nsubheadings of this heading', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8205909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8206000000', 'Tools of two or more of the headings\n82.02 to 82.05, put up in sets for\nretail sale.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207130000', 'With working part of cermets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207191000', 'With working part of other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207199000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207201000', 'For drawing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207202000', 'For extruding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207301000', 'For pressing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207302000', 'For stamping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207303000', 'For punching', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207401000', 'For tapping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207402000', 'For threading', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207501010', 'Of high speed steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207501090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207502000', 'Brace bits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207601000', 'Reamers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207603000', 'Broaches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207701000', 'Gear cutters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207702000', 'Milling cutters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207703000', 'Gear cutting hobs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207704000', 'Rotary files', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207801000', 'Tools for lathes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207901000', 'Diamond tools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8207909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8208100000', 'For metal working', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8208200000', 'For wood working', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8208300000', 'For kitchen appliances or for\nmachines used by the food industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8208400000', 'For agricultural, horticultural or\nforestry machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8208900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209001010', 'Of tungsten carbide, treated with\ncoating', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209001050', 'Of titanium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209002010', 'Of tungsten carbide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209002050', 'Of titanium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8209002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210001000', 'Mills and grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210002000', 'Extractors and pressers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210003000', 'Beaters and mixers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210004000', 'Slicers and cutters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210005000', 'Openers, corkers and sealers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210008000', 'Other domestic food-processing\nappliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8210009000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211100000', 'Sets of assorted articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211910000', 'Table knives having fixed blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211920000', 'Other knives having fixed blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211930000', 'Knives having other than fixed\nblades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211940000', 'Blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8211950000', 'Handles of base metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8212100000', 'Razors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8212200000', 'Safety razor blades, including razor\nblade blanks in strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8212900000', 'Other parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213001000', 'Ordinary scissors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213002010', 'For tailors and dressmakers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213002020', 'For hairdressers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213003000', 'Manicure scissors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213004000', 'Scissor blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8213009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214101000', 'Pencil sharpeners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214200000', 'Manicure or pedicure sets and\ninstruments (including nail files)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214901000', 'Hair clippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214902000', "Butchers' or kitchen cleavers,\nchoppers and mincing knives", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8214909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215100000', 'Sets of assorted articles containing at\nleast one article plated with precious\nmetal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215200000', 'Other sets of assorted articles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215911000', 'Spoons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215912000', 'Forks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215913000', 'Ladles and skimmers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215914000', 'Fish-knives and butter-knives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215915000', 'Tongs of all kinds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215991000', 'Spoons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215992000', 'Forks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215993000', 'Ladles and skimmers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215994000', 'Fish-knives and butter-knives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215995000', 'Tong of all kinds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8215999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301100000', 'Padlocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301200000', 'Locks of a kind used for motor\nvehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301300000', 'Locks of a kind used for furniture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301401010', 'Digital door locks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301500000', 'Clasps and frames with clasps,\nincorporating locks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301600000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8301700000', 'Keys presented separately', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302100000', 'Hinges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302200000', 'Castors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302300000', 'Other mountings, fittings and similar\narticles suitable for motor vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302411000', 'Suitable for doors or windows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302420000', 'Other, suitable for furniture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302491000', 'Suitable for trunks, suitcases, or\nsimilar travel goods.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302500000', 'Hat-racks, hat-pegs, brackets and\nsimilar fixtures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8302600000', 'Automatic door closers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8303001000', 'Safes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8303009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8304000000', 'Filing cabinets, card-index cabinets,\npaper trays, paper rests, pen trays,\noffice-stamp stands and similar\noffice or desk equipment, of base\nmetal, other than office furniture of\nheading 94.03.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8305100000', 'Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8305200000', 'Staples in strips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8305900000', 'Other, including parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8306100000', 'Bells, gongs and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8306210000', 'Plated with precious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8306290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8306301000', 'Photograph, picture or similar frames', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8306302000', 'Mirrors of base metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8307100000', 'Of iron or steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8307900000', 'Of other base metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308101000', 'Hooks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308102000', 'Eyes and eyelets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308200000', 'Tubular or bifurcated rivets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308901000', 'Clasps and frames with clasps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308902000', 'Buckles and buckle-clasps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308903000', 'Beads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308904000', 'Spangles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8308909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8309100000', 'Crown corks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8309901000', 'Easy opener end', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8309909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8310000000', 'Sign-plates, name-plates, address-\nplates and similar plates, numbers,\nletters and other symbols, of base\nmetal, excluding those of heading\n94.05.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311101000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311201000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311301000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311309010', 'Lead-tin alloy solders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311901000', 'For use in manufacturing\nsemiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8311909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8401100000', 'Nuclear reactors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8401200000', 'Machinery and apparatus for isotopic\nseparation, and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8401300000', 'Fuel elements (cartridges), non-\nirradiated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8401400000', 'Parts of nuclear reactors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402110000', 'Watertube boilers with a steam\nproduction exceeding 45t per hour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402120000', 'Watertube boilers with a steam\nproduction not exceeding 45t per\nhour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402191000', 'Heating medium boiler', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402200000', 'Super-heated water boilers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402901000', 'Of steam and other vapour\ngenerating boilers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8402902000', 'Of super-heated water boilers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8403101000', 'Central heating boilers, using fuel oil', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8403102000', 'Central heating boilers, using coal or\ncoke', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8403103000', 'Central heating boilers, using gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8403109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8403900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404101000', 'Economisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404102000', 'Super-heaters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404103000', 'Soot removers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404104000', 'Gas recoverers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404200000', 'Condensers for steam or other\nvapour power units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404901000', 'Of condensers for boilers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404902000', 'Of condensers for vapour engines\nand power units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8404909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405101000', 'Producer gas generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405102000', 'Water gas generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405104000', 'Oxygen generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405901000', 'Of producer gas generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405902000', 'Of water gas generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405904000', 'Of oxygen generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8405909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406100000', 'Turbines for marine propulsion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406811000', 'Of an output exceeding 40 MW but\nnot exceeding 100 MW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406812000', 'Of an output exceeding 100 MW but\nnot exceeding 300 MW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406813000', 'Of an output exceeding 300 MW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406820000', 'Of an output not exceeding 40 MW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406901000', 'Of steam turbines for marine\npropulsion', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8406909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407100000', 'Aircraft engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407210000', 'Outboard motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407311000', 'For moter-cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407321000', 'For motor-cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407331000', 'For motor-cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407341000', 'For motor-cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407349000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407901000', 'For railway locomotives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8407909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408101000', 'With a rating not exceeding 300 kW', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8408102000', 'With a rating more than 300 kW, not\nexceeding 2,000 kW', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8408103000', 'With a rating more than 2,000 kW', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8408201000', 'Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n1,000cc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408202000', 'Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000cc but not exceeding 2,000cc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408203000', 'Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000cc but not exceeding 4,000cc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408204000', 'Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n4,000cc but not exceeding 10,000cc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408205000', 'Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n10,000cc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408901010', 'Internal combustion engines for\nrailway locomotives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408909010', 'Internal combustion engines for\nships', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8408909021', 'For generating of a power not less\nthan 400 kW (Of a rpm 1,500 or\n1,800)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408909029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408909030', 'Internal combustion engines for\nheading 84.29', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8408909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409100000', 'For aircraft engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409911000', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409912000', 'For outboard motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409991000', 'For railway locomotives and rolling\nstock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409992000', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409993010', 'Of internal combustion engines with\na rating not exceeding 300 kW', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8409993020', 'Of internal combustion engines with\na rating exceeding 300 kW, but not\nexceeding 2,000 kW', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8409993030', 'Of internal combustion engines with\na rating exceeding 2,000 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409999010', 'For generating', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8409999090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410111000', 'Hydraulic turbines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410120000', 'Of a power exceeding 1,000 kW but\nnot exceeding 10,000 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410130000', 'Of a power exceeding 10,000 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410901010', 'For water turbines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410909010', 'For water turbines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8410909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411111000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411119010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411119090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411121000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411129010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411211000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411219010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411219090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411221000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411229010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411229090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411811000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411819010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411819090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411821000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411829010', 'For marine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411829090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411911000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411991000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8411999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412101000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412211000', 'Hydraulic cylinder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412310000', 'Linear acting (cylinders)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412800000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412901010', 'Of ram-jet or pulse-jet engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412902000', 'Of water engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8412909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413110000', 'Pumps for dispensing fuel or\nlubricants, of the type used in filling-\nstations or in garages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413200000', 'Hand pumps, other than those of\nsubheading 8413.11 or 8413. 19', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413301000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413302000', 'For railway locomotive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413303000', 'For marine', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8413304000', 'For vehicles falling within Chapter\n87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413400000', 'Concrete pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413504000', 'Pumps to be used with swimming\npools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413509010', 'Plunger pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413509020', 'Piston pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413509030', 'Diaphram pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413509090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413604000', 'Pumps to be used with swimming\npools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413609010', 'Gear pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413609020', 'Vane pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413609030', 'Screw pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413609090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413703000', 'Pumps to be used with swimming\npools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413709010', 'Turbine pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413709020', 'Volute pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413709090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413811000', 'Pumps to be used with swimming\npools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413819000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413820000', 'Liquid elevators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413911000', 'Of pumps for dispensing fuel or\nlubricants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413912000', 'Of internal combustion engine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413913000', 'Of reciprocating pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413914000', 'Of contrifugal pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413915000', 'Of rotary pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8413920000', 'Of liquid elevators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414101000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414109010', 'For machines and mechanical\nappliances for making semiconductor\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414109020', 'For machines and mechanical\nappliances for making flat panel\ndisplays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414200000', 'Hand- or foot-operated air pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414301000', 'Of a power requirement less than 11\nkW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414302000', 'Of a power requirement not less than\n11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414400000', 'Air compressors mounted on a\nwheeled chassis for towing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414511000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414591000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414592000', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor cooling microprocessors,\ntelecommunication apparatus,\nautomatic data processing machines\nor units of automatic data processing\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414601000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414801000', 'Hoods having a maximum horizontal\nside exceeding 120 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809110', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809210', 'Of a power requirement less than\n74.6 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809220', 'Of a power requirement not less than\n74.6 kW, less than 373 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809230', 'Of a power not less than 373 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414809900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414901000', 'Of fans and hoods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414909010', 'Of compressors used in refrigerating\nequipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414909020', 'Of air or gas compressors (excluding\nfor refrigerating equipment)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8414909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415101010', 'Of a power less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415101020', 'Of a power not less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415102010', 'Of a power less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415102020', 'Of a power not less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415109010', 'Of a power less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415109020', 'Of a power not less than 11 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415200000', 'Of a kind used for persons, in motor\nvehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415810000', 'Incorporating a refrigerating unit and\na valve for reversal of the\ncooling/heat cycle (reversible heat\npumps)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415820000', 'Other, incorporating a refrigerating\nunit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415830000', 'Not incorporating a refrigerating unit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8415900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416101000', 'Of the maximum consumption\ncapacity of fuel not more than 200 ℓ\nper hour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416102000', 'Of the maximum consumption\ncapacity of fuel exceeding 200 ℓ, but\nless than 1,500 ℓ per hour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416103000', 'Of the maximum consumption\ncapacity of fuel not less than 1,500 ℓ\nper hour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416201000', 'Furnace burners for pulverised solid\nfuel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416202000', 'Furnace burners for gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416300000', 'Mechanical stokers, including their\nmechanical grates, mechanical ash\ndischargers and similar appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416901000', 'Of furnace burners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8416909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417101010', 'For iron-ores', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417102010', 'For iron or steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417200000', 'Bakery ovens, including biscuit\novens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417801010', 'For cements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417801020', 'For glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417801030', 'For ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417801090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417802000', 'Laboratory type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8417900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418101010', 'Of a capacity not exceeding 200 ℓ.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418101020', 'Of a capacity exceeding 200 ℓ but\nnot exceeding 400 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418101030', 'Of a capacity exceeding 400 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418211000', 'Of a capacity less than 200 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418212000', 'Of a capacity not less than 200 ℓ, but\nless than 400 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418213000', 'Of a capacity not less than 400 ℓ', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418291000', 'Absorption-type, electrical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418300000', 'Freezers of the chest type, not\nexceeding 800 ℓ capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418400000', 'Freezers of the upright type, not\nexceeding 900 ℓ capacity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418501000', 'Show-cases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418610000', 'Heat pumps other than air\nconditioning machines of heading\n84.15', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418691000', 'Blood storage refrigerators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418692010', 'Ice-cream making machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418692020', 'Ice-cuber', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418692030', 'Water cooler', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418692090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418693000', 'Heat pumps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418910000', 'Furniture designed to receive\nrefrigerating or freezing equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418991000', 'Of house hold type refrigerators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8418999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419110000', 'Instantaneous gas water heaters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419200000', 'Medical, surgical or laboratory\nsterilisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419310000', 'For agricultural products', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419320000', 'For wood, paper pulp, paper or\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419391000', 'Spin dryers for machines and\nmechanical appliances for making\nsemiconductor devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419400000', 'Distilling or rectifying plant', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419501000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419502000', 'Of fluoropolymers and with inlet and\noutlet tube bores with inside\ndiameters measuring 3 cm or less', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419600000', 'Machinery for liquefying air or other\ngases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419810000', 'For making hot drinks or for cooking\nor heating food', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419891000', 'Polymerization autoclaves for man-\nmade fibre making', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899010', 'Heating plant and machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899020', 'Cooling plant and machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899030', 'Evaporating plant and machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899040', 'Condensing plant and machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899050', 'Sollar-collectors and equipments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899060', 'Constant high or low temperature\nchambers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899070', 'Constant temperature and humidity\nchambers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899080', 'Air-conditioner', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419899090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419901000', 'Of polymerization autoclaves for\nman-made fibre making', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419909010', 'Of instantaneous or storage water\nheaters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419909020', 'Of making hot drinks or for cooking\nor heating food machinery and\nequipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419909030', 'Of air-conditioning machinery, plant\nand equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419909040', 'Of medical, surgical or laboratory\nsterilisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8419909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420101000', 'For paper making', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420102000', 'For textile fabrics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420103000', 'For leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420104000', 'For rubber or plastic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420105000', 'For the manufacture of printed\ncircuit substrates or printed circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420910000', 'Cylinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8420990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421110000', 'Cream separators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421120000', 'Clothes-dryers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421191000', 'For medical, surgical or laboratory\nuse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421192000', 'For food industry use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421193000', 'For petro-chemical industry use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421211000', 'Of the household type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421219010', 'Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus to be used with swimming', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'pools', '', ''], ['8421219020', 'Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus for making semiconductor\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421219090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421220000', 'For filtering or purifying beverages\nother than water', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421231000', 'For internal combustion engines for\nvehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421232000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421239000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421291000', 'For dairy industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421292010', 'Of fluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421292090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421293010', 'Of fluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421293090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421294000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421299010', 'Of fluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421299090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421311000', 'For internal combustion engines for\nvehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421312000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421391000', 'For the household type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421392000', 'For purifying exhaust gas for\nvehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399011', 'With stainless steel housing, and\nwith inlet and outlet tube bores with\ninside diameters not exceeding 1.3\ncm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399021', 'With stainless steel housing, and\nwith inlet and outlet tube bores with\ninside diameters not exceeding 1.3\ncm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399030', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421399091', 'With stainless steel housing, and\nwith inlet and outlet tube bores with\ninside diameters not exceeding 1.3', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'cm', '', ''], ['8421399099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421910000', 'Of centrifuges, including centrifugal\ndryers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421991000', 'For purifying exhaust gas for\nvehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999010', 'Of filtering or purifying machinery\nand apparatus, for internal\ncombustion engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999021', 'Of filtering or purifying machinery\nand apparatus for liquids, made of\nfluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns; Of filtering\nor purifying machinery and\napparatus for gases, with stainless\nsteel housing, and with inlet and\noutlet tube bores with inside\ndiameters not exceeding 1.3 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999031', 'Of filtering or purifying machinery\nand apparatus for liquids, made of\nfluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns; Of filtering\nor purifying machinery and\napparatus for gases, with stainless\nsteel housing, and with inlet and\noutlet tube bores with inside\ndiameters not exceeding 1.3 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999091', 'Of filtering or purifying machinery\nand apparatus for liquids, made of\nfluoropolymers and with filter or\npurifier membrane thickness not\nexceeding 140 microns; Of filtering\nor purifying machinery and\napparatus for gases, with stainless\nsteel housing, and with inlet and\noutlet tube bores with inside\ndiameters not exceeding 1.3 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8421999099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422110000', 'Of the household type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422200000', 'Machinery for cleaning or drying\nbottles or other containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422301000', 'Machinery for filling bottles or other\ncontainers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422302000', 'Machinery for closing or sealing\nbottles or other containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422303000', 'Machinery for capsuling or labelling\nbottles or other containers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422304000', 'Machinery for aerating beverages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422404000', 'Heat shrink wrapping machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422409010', 'Automatic wrapping machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422409020', 'Automatic pack tiers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422409030', 'Vacuum packers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422409090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422901000', 'Of dish washing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422902000', 'Of other packing or wrapping\nmachinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8422909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423100000', 'Personal weighing machines,\nincluding baby scales; household\nscales', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423201000', 'Conveyer scale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423202000', 'Feed meter or feed weighers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423301000', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423811000', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423819000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423821000', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight, excluding machines for\nweighing motor vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423829000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423891000', 'Truck scale', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423899010', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423899090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423901011', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight, excluding parts of machines\nfor weighing motor vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423901019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423901091', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight, excluding parts of machines\nfor weighing motor vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423901099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423909010', 'Using electronic means for gauging\nweight, excluding parts of machines\nfor weighing motor vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8423909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424100000', 'Fire extinguishers, whether or not\ncharged', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424201000', 'Spray guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424202010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424301000', 'Steam or sand blasting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424302000', 'High-pressure steam cleaners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424410000', 'Portable sprayers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424491000', 'Self-propelled sprayers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424820000', 'Agricultural or horticultural', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424891000', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424892000', 'For the purpose of printed circuits or\nprinted circuit assemblies\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424901000', 'Of fire extinguishers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424902000', 'Of spray guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424903000', 'Of sprayers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424909010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424909020', 'For the purpose of printed circuits or\nprinted circuit assemblies\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8424909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425111010', 'Chain blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425111090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425112010', 'Chain blocks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425112090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425311000', 'Pit-head winding gear; winches\nspecially designed for use\nunderground', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425391000', 'Pit-head winding gear; winches\nspecially designed for use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'underground', '', ''], ['8425399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425410000', 'Built-in jacking systems of a type\nused in garages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425421000', 'Of a freight-lifting capacity not\nexceeding 10 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425422000', 'Of a freight-lifting capacity\nexceeding 10 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425491000', 'Of a freight-lifting capacity not\nexceeding 10 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8425492000', 'Of a freight-lifting capacity\nexceeding 10 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426110000', 'Overhead travelling cranes on fixed\nsupport', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426121000', 'Mobile lifting frames on tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426122000', 'Straddle carriers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426200000', 'Tower cranes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426301000', 'Portal cranes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426302000', 'Pedestal jib cranes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426410000', 'On tyres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426491000', 'Of telescopic boom type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426492000', 'Of latticed boom type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426910000', 'Designed for mounting on road\nvehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426991000', "Ships' derricks", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8426999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427101010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427101020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427102010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427102020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427201011', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427201012', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427201021', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427201022', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427901000', 'Hand pallet trucks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8427909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428101000', 'Lifts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428102000', 'Skip hoists', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428201000', 'Pneumatic elevators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428202000', 'Pneumatic conveyors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428310000', 'Specially designed for underground\nuse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428320000', 'Other, bucket type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428331010', 'Of a lifting speed less than 240m per\nminute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428331020', 'Of a lifting speed not less than 240m\nper minute', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428332000', 'Conveyors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428401000', 'Escalators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428402000', 'Moving walkways', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428600000', 'Teleferics, chair-lifts, ski-draglines;\ntraction mechanisms for funiculars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428901000', 'Mine wagon pushers, locomotive or\nwagon traversers, wagon tippers and\nsimilar railway wagon handling\nequipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8428909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429111000', 'Bulldozers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429112000', 'Angledozers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429200000', 'Graders and levellers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429300000', 'Scrapers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429401000', 'Tamping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429402000', 'Road rollers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511011', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511012', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511021', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511022', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511031', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511032', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511091', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429511092', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429521011', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429521012', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429521021', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429521022', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429521090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8429590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430100000', 'Pile-drivers and pile-extractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430200000', 'Snow-ploughs and snow-blowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430310000', 'Self-propelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430411000', 'Boring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430412000', 'Sinking machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430491000', 'Test boring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430500000', 'Other machinery, self-propelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430610000', 'Tamping or compacting machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8430690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431100000', 'Of machinery of heading 84.25', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431200000', 'Of machinery of heading 84.27', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431310000', 'Of lifts, skip hoists or escalators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431411000', 'Of excavators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431420000', 'Bulldozer or angledozer blades', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431430000', 'Parts for boring or sinking machinery\nof subheading 8430.41 or 8430.49', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431491000', 'Hydraulic breaker', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431492000', 'Crushers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8431499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432100000', 'Ploughs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432210000', 'Disc harrows', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432291000', 'Scarifiers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432292000', 'Weeders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432310000', 'No-till direct seeders, planters and\ntransplanters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432391000', 'Seeders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432392000', 'Planters and transplanters,\nincluding rice transplanters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432410000', 'Manure spreaders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432420000', 'Fertiliser distributors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432800000', 'Other machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432901000', 'Of ploughs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432902000', 'Of automatic cultivators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8432909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433110000', 'Powered, with the cutting device\nrotating in a horizontal plane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433200000', 'Other mowers, including cutter bars\nfor tractor mounting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433300000', 'Other haymaking machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433400000', 'Straw or fodder balers, including\npick-up balers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433510000', 'Combine harvester-threshers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433520000', 'Other threshing machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433530000', 'Root or tuber harvesting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433601000', 'Eggs grading machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433609010', 'Grading machines for agricultural\nproduce', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433609090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433901000', 'Of combine harvester-threshers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433902000', 'Of hay or grass mowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8433909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434100000', 'Milking machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434201000', 'Homogenisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434901000', 'Of milking machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434902000', 'Of homogenisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8434909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8435101000', 'Presses for the extraction of fruit\njuice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8435102000', 'Crushers for the extraction of fruit\njuice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8435109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8435900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436101000', 'Feed cutter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436102000', 'Feed grinder, mill or crusher', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436103000', 'Feed mixer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436211000', 'Incubators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436800000', 'Other machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436910000', 'Of poultry-keeping machinery or\npoultry incubators and brooders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8436990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437101000', 'Forage-grass seed selectors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437801000', 'Machinery used in the milling\nindustry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437802000', 'Machinery for the working of cereals\nor dried leguminous vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437901000', 'Of machines for cleaning, sorting or\ngrading seed, grain or dried\nleguminous vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8437909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438101000', 'Bakery machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438200000', 'Machinery for the manufacture of\nconfectionery, cocoa or chocolate', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438300000', 'Machinery for sugar manufacture', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438400000', 'Brewery machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438501000', 'Machinery used in meat preparation', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438600000', 'Machinery for the preparation of\nfruits, nuts or vegetables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438801000', 'Machines for preparing fish, shell\nfish, etc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8438900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439101000', 'Grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439102000', 'Cutters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439103000', 'Strainers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439201000', 'Machines for forming paper', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439202000', 'Paper making machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439301000', 'Reeling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439302000', 'Machines for working surface', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439303000', 'Machines for impregnating paper or\npaperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439910000', 'Of machinery for making pulp of\nfibrous cellulosic material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8439990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8440101000', 'Book-sewing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8440102000', 'Leaf-folding machines for book-\nbinding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8440109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8440901000', 'Of book-sewing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8440909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441100000', 'Cutting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441201000', 'Machines for making bags or sacks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441202000', 'Machines for making envelopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441300000', 'Machines for making cartons, boxes,\ncases, tubes, drums or similar\ncontainers, other than by moulding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441400000', 'Machines for moulding articles in\npaper pulp, paper or paperboard', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441801000', 'Paper or paperboard trimming\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8441900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442301000', 'Machinery and apparatus for type-\nfounding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442302000', 'Special moulding presses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442303000', 'Acid etching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442305000', 'Machinery,apparatus and equipment\nfor type-setting or composing by\nother processes,with or without\nfounding device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442401000', 'Of machinery and apparatus for type-\nsetting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442402000', 'Of machinery and apparatus for type-\nfounding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8442500000', 'Plates, cylinders and other printing\ncomponents; plates, cylinders and\nlithographic stones, prepared for\nprinting purposes (for example,\nplaned, grained or polished)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443110000', 'Offset printing machinery, reel fed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443120000', 'Offset printing machinery, sheet-fed,\noffice type (using sheets with one\nside not exceeding 22 cm and the\nother side not exceeding 36 cm in the\nunfolded state)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443130000', 'Other offset printing machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443140000', 'Letterpress printing machinery, reel\nfed, excluding flexographic printing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443150000', 'Letterpress printing machinery, other\nthan reel fed, excluding flexographic\nprinting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443160000', 'Flexographic printing machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443170000', 'Gravure printing machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443191000', 'Textile printing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443192000', 'Other printing machines of a type\nused for printing a repetitive design,\nrepetitive words or overall colour on\ntextiles, leather, wallpaper, wrapping\npaper, linoleum or other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443311010', 'Laser beam printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443311020', 'Dot-matrix printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443311030', 'ink-jet printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443312000', 'Facsimile machine which perform\none or more of the functions of\nprinting or copying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443313010', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image directly onto the copy\n(direct process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443313020', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image via an intermediate\nonto the copy (indirect process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443314000', 'Ink-jet printing machines, other than\nsubheading 8443.31.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443321010', 'Laser beam printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443321020', 'Dot-matrix printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443321030', 'Ink-jet printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443322000', 'Facsimile machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443323000', 'Teleprinters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443324010', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image directly onto the copy\n(direct process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443324020', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image via an intermediate\nonto the copy (indirect process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443325010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443325090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443391010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'manufacturing', '', ''], ['8443391090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443392010', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image directly onto the copy\n(direct process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443392020', 'Operating by reproducing the\noriginal image via an intermediate\nonto the copy (indirect process)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443393010', 'Incorporating an optical system', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443393020', 'Of the contact type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443394000', 'Thermo-copying apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443911010', 'Automatic feeders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443911020', 'Folders, gummers, perforators and\nstaplers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443991000', 'Of subheading 8443.31.10 or\n8443.32.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443992000', 'Of facsimile machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443993000', 'Of teleprinters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443994010', 'Automatic document feeders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443994020', 'Paper feeders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443994030', 'Sorters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443994090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443995000', 'Of subheading 8443.31.4000,\n8443.32.5010, 8443.32.5090,\n8443.39.1010 or 8443.39.1090', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8443999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8444001000', 'Machines for extruding man-made\ntextiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8444002000', 'Machines for drawing man-made\ntextiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8444003000', 'Machines for texturing man-made\ntextiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8444004000', 'Machines for cutting man-made\ntextiles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8444009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445110000', 'Carding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445120000', 'Combing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445130000', 'Drawing or roving machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445191000', 'Blowing and mixing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445192000', 'Lap machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445193000', 'Cotton gin', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445201010', 'Fine spinning frames', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445202000', 'For wool', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445203000', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445301000', 'For filament yarns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445302000', 'For spun yarns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445401000', 'Cone winders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445402000', 'Cheese winders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445901000', 'Warping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445902000', 'Warp sizing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445903000', 'Drawing-in machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445904000', 'Warp tying-in machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8445909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446100000', 'For weaving fabrics of a width not\nexceeding 30 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446211000', 'For cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446213000', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446301010', 'For cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446301020', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446301030', 'For towel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446302010', 'For cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446302020', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446302030', 'For towel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446302090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446303010', 'For cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446303020', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446303030', 'For towel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446303090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446309010', 'For cotton', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446309020', 'For silk', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446309030', 'For towel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8446309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447111000', 'Stocking knitting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447120000', 'With cylinder diameter exceeding\n165 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447201010', 'Hand-knitting machines (including\nsemi- automatic flat knitting\nmachines)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447201020', 'Automatic flat knitting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447202010', 'Raschel knitting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447202020', 'Tricot knitting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447901000', 'Lace machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447902010', 'Automatic embroidery machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447903000', 'Machines for making knotted net', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8447909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448111000', 'Dobbies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448112000', 'Jacquards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448113000', 'Card punching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448191000', 'Warp beam stands or creels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448199010', 'Auxiliary machines for making yarn\n(excluding cotton gin)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448201000', 'Extruding nipples', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448310000', 'Card clothing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448321000', 'For carding machine(excluding\ngarnet wires)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448331000', 'Spindle flyers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448339010', 'Spindle', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448339020', 'Spinning ring', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448339030', 'Ring travellers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448391000', 'Warp beams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448420000', 'Reeds for looms, healds and heald-\nframes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448491000', 'Shuttles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448511000', 'Hosiery needles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448512000', 'Needles for embroidery machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448513000', 'Needles for lace machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8448590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8449001000', 'Machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8449002000', 'Blocks for making hats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8449009000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8450110000', 'Fully-automatic machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8450120000', 'Other machines, with built-in\ncentrifugal drier', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8450190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8450200000', 'Machines, each of a dry linen\ncapacity exceeding 10 kg', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8450900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451100000', 'Dry-cleaning machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451210000', 'Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 10 kg', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451301000', 'Steam presses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451401000', 'Washing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451402000', 'Bleaching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451403000', 'Dyeing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451501000', 'Reeling, unreeling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451502000', 'Cutting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451801000', 'Heat treating machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451802000', 'Stentering machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451803000', 'Mercerising machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451809010', 'Shrinking machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451809020', 'Coating or impregnating machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451809030', 'Raising machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451809040', 'Padding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451809090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451901000', 'Of dry cleaning machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451902000', 'Of drying machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8451909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452101020', 'For zigzag stitch', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452101030', 'Of free arm type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452102000', 'Of manual type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452212000', 'For sewing sacks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452292000', 'For sewing sacks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452300000', 'Sewing machine needles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452901000', 'Furniture, bases and covers for\nsewing machines and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8452909000', 'Other parts of sewing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453101000', 'Machinery for preparing hides, skins\nor leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453102000', 'Machinery for tanning hides, skins or\nleather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453103000', 'Machinery for working hides, skins\nor leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453200000', 'Machinery for making or repairing\nfootwear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453800000', 'Other machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8453900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454100000', 'Converters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454200000', 'Ingot moulds and ladles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454301010', 'Die-casting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454901000', 'Of converters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8454909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455100000', 'Tube mills', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455210000', 'Hot or combination hot and cold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455220000', 'Cold', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455301000', 'Of casting', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455302000', 'Of forging', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8455900000', 'Other parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456111000', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed\ncircuits, printed circuit assemblies,\nparts of heading 8517, or parts of\nautomatic data processing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456121000', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed\ncircuits, printed circuit assemblies,\nparts of heading 8517, or parts of\nautomatic data processing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456200000', 'Operated by ultrasonic processes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456301010', 'Wire-cut machine,operated by\nelectro-discharge processes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456400000', 'Operated by plasma arc processes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456500000', 'Water-jet cutting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8456900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457101000', 'Of vertical type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457102000', 'Of horizontal type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457103000', 'Of double column type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457200000', 'Unit construction machines (single\nstation)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8457300000', 'Multi-station transfer machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8458110000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8458190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8458910000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8458990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459100000', 'Way-type unit head machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459210000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459291000', 'Radial drilling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459292000', 'Upright drilling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459293000', 'Multi-spindle drilling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459310000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459411000', 'Jig boring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459412000', 'Horizontal boring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459510000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459590000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459611000', 'Bed type milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459612000', 'Planing milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459691000', 'Bed type milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459692000', 'Planing milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459693000', 'Universal tool milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459694000', 'Profile milling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459701000', 'Tapping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8459709000', 'Other threading machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460120000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460220000', 'Centreless grinding machines,\nnumerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460230000', 'Other cylindrical grinding machines,\nnumerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460241000', 'Internal grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460242000', 'Profile grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460249000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460291000', 'Cylindrical grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460292000', 'Internal grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460293000', 'Centreless grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460294000', 'Profile grinding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460310000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460401000', 'Honing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460402000', 'Lapping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8460900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461200000', 'Shaping or slotting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461300000', 'Broaching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461401010', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461402000', 'Gear grinding or gear finishing\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461500000', 'Sawing or cutting-off machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8461900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462101000', 'Air hammer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462210000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462310000', 'Numerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462411000', 'Punching machines (including\ncombined shearing machines)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462412000', 'Notching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462491000', 'Punching machines (including\ncombined shearing machines)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462492000', 'Notching machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462911000', 'Of the maximum pressure not more\nthan 100 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462912000', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n100 metric tons, but not more than\n300 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462913000', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n300 metric tons, but not more than\n1000 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462914000', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n1000 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991010', 'Of the maximum pressure not more\nthan 30 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991020', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n30 metric tons, but not more than\n100 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991030', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n100 metric tons, but not more than\n300 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991040', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n300 metric tons, but not more than\n600 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991050', 'Of the maximum pressure more than\n600 metric tons, but not more than\n1,500 metric tons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462991090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8462999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8463100000', 'Draw-benches for bars, tubes,\nprofiles, wire or the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8463200000', 'Thread rolling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8463300000', 'Machines for working wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8463901000', '3D printers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8463909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464100000', 'Sawing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464201000', 'For working optical or spectacle\nglass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464202000', 'For working other glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464901000', 'Machine-tools for cold working glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464902000', 'Machine-tools for working concrete', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464903000', 'Machine-tools for working ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8464909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465101000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465201000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465911000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465921000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465931000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465941000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465951000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465959000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465961000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465969000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465991000', 'For working wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8465999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466100000', 'Tool holders and self-opening\ndieheads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466201000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466300000', 'Dividing heads and other special\nattachments for machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466910000', 'For machines of heading 84.64', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466920000', 'For machines of heading 84.65', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466931000', 'Of machine tools of a kind used\nsolely or principally for the\nmanufacture of printed circuits,\nprinted circuit assemblies, parts of\nheading 8517, or parts of automatic\ndata processing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8466940000', 'For machines of heading 84.62 or\n84.63', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467111000', 'Rock drillers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467112000', 'Screw drivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467113000', 'Grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467114000', 'Impact wrench', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467115000', 'Drill', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467191000', 'Rock drillers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467210000', 'Drills of all kinds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467220000', 'Saws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467810000', 'Chain saws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467891010', 'Of subheading 8430.49 or 8479.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467891020', 'Of subheading 8479.89.9010,\n8479.89.9030 or 8479.89.9091', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467891090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467910000', 'Of chain saws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467920000', 'Of pneumatic tools', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8467990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468100000', 'Hand-held blow pipes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468201000', 'Gas welding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468202000', 'Gas automatic cutting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468800000', 'Other machinery and apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8468900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470103010', 'Less than 17 digits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470103020', 'Not less than 17 digits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470104010', 'Of subheading 8472.90.9000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470104090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470210000', 'Incorporating a printing device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470300000', 'Other calculating machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470500000', 'Cash registers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470902000', 'Ticket-issuing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470903000', 'Accounting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8470909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471300000', 'Portable automatic data processing\nmachines, weighing not more than\n10 kg, consisting of at least a central\nprocessing unit, a keyboard and a\ndisplay', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471411000', 'Those of not less than 64bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 64mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471412000', 'Those of not less than 32bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 16mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471491010', 'Those of not less than 64bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 64mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471491020', 'Those of not less than 32bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 16mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471491090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471501000', 'Those of not less than 64 bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 64 mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471502000', 'Those of not less than 32 bit in\ndelivering data of CPU and of not\nless than 16 mega byte in capacity of\nmain memory storage', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471601010', 'Character (mark) readers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471601020', 'Key entry system', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471601030', 'Mouse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471601040', 'Scanners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471601090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471602000', 'Output units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471603030', 'Voice input output devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471603090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471701000', 'Main storage units (RAM & ROM)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702020', 'Hard disk drive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702031', 'Compact disc drive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702032', 'Digital video disc drive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702033', 'Blu-ray disk drive', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471702090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471801000', 'Sound cards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471802000', 'Video cards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8471900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472100000', 'Duplicating machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472301000', 'Letters sorting machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472302000', 'Machines for cancelling postage\nstamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472901010', 'Automatic banknote or coin\ndispensers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472901020', 'Automatic banknote or coin\nreceiving machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472901040', 'Automatic banknote or coin\ndispencing and receiving machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472901050', 'Coin-counting or wrapping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472902000', 'Automatic sheet making machines\nfor duplicating and printing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472903000', 'Ticket-issuing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472904000', 'Pencil-sharpening machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472905000', 'Paper shredders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472906000', 'Addressing machines and address\nplate embossing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8472909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473210000', 'Of the electronic calculating\nmachines of subheading 8470.10,\n8470.21 or 8470.29', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473291000', 'Of machines of subheading 8470.30', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473293000', 'Of machines of subheading 8470.50', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473294000', 'Of machines of subheading 8470.90', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473301000', 'Magnetic head', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473302000', 'Main board, designed to be equipped\nwith microprocessor unit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473303000', 'Case for computer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473304060', 'DRAM modules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473304090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473309010', 'Central processing unit(CPU) for\ncomputer, not classified in heading\n85.42', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473401000', 'Flat panel displays for automatic\nteller machines other than\nsubheadings 8472.90.1050 and\n8472.90.1090(including LCD,\nEL(electro luminescence), plasma\nand other technologies)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473402000', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) for\nautomatic teller machines other than\nsubheadings 8472.90.1050 and\n8472.90.1090, which consist of one\nor more printed circuits of heading\n85.34', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473501000', 'Suitable for use principally with the\nelectronic calculating machines of\nsubheading 8470.10, 8470.21 or\n8470.29', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8473509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474100000', 'Sorting, screening, separating or\nwashing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474201000', 'Of crushing or grinding capacity not\nexceeding 20 tons per hour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474311000', 'Batcher plants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474319000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474321000', 'Asphalt plants', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474801000', 'Machines for forming foundry\nmoulds of sands', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474802000', 'Machinery for agglomerating,\nmoulding or shaping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8474900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475100000', 'Machines for assembling electric or\nelectronic lamps, tubes or valves or\nflashbulbs, in glass envelopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475210000', 'Machines for making optical fibres\nand preforms thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475291000', 'For the manufacture of plate glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475292000', 'For the manufacture of glass-bottle', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475901000', 'Of machines for the manufacture of\nplate glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475902000', 'Of machines for making optical\nfibres and preforms thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8475909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476210000', 'Incorporating heating or refrigerating\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476811000', 'For selling foods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476819000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476891000', 'For selling foods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476894000', 'For money-changing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476901000', 'Of money-changing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8476909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477101000', 'For rubber-industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477102000', 'For plastic-industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477201000', 'For rubber-industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477202000', 'For plastic-industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477300000', 'Blow moulding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477400000', 'Vacuum moulding machines and\nother thermoforming machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477510000', 'For moulding or retreading\npneumatic tyres or for moulding or\notherwise forming inner tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477591000', '3D printers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477800000', 'Other machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8477900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8478100000', 'Machinery', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8478900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479101000', 'Mortar or concrete spreading\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479102000', 'Other road making machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479200000', 'Machinery for the extraction or\npreparation of animal or fixed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'vegetable fats or oils', '', ''], ['8479300000', 'Presses for the manufacture of\nparticle board or fibre building board\nof wood or other ligneous materials\nand other machinery for treating\nwood or cork', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479400000', 'Rope or cable-making machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479501000', 'Of subheading 8479.81, 8479.82,\n8479.89.9010, 8479.89.9030,\n8479.89.9040, 8479.89.9060 or\n8479.89.9091', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479502000', 'Of Subheading 8479.89.9080', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479600000', 'Evaporative air coolers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479710000', 'Of a kind used in airports', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479790000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479811000', 'Metal scouring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479812010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479812090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479813000', 'Winding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479814000', 'Insulating or protective material\ncovering machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479819000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479821000', 'Mixers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479822000', 'Crushers and grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479823000', 'Homogenisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479824000', 'Agitators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479829000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479891010', 'Air purifiers (having functions of\nhumidifying and dehumidifying)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479891090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479892010', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed circuit\nassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479892090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899010', 'Presses or extruding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899020', 'Machines and appliances for ships or\nfishing industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899030', 'Eyeletting or tubular rivetting\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899050', 'Coating machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899060', 'Auto-door operators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899070', '3D printer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899080', 'Automatic winding machines for\nfishing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899091', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479899099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479901010', 'Of air coolers (including parts of\ncarcoolers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479901020', 'Of machines and mechanical\nappliances of the household type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479901030', 'Of vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479902000', 'Of those specified in subheading\n8479.89.9080', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479903000', 'Of machines and mechanical\nappliances for making semi-\nconductor devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479904000', 'Of subheading 8479.7', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479905010', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed circuit\nassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479905090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909010', 'Of machinery for public works,\nbuilding or the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909020', 'Of machinery for the extraction or\npreparation of animal or fixed\nvegetable fats or oils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909030', 'Of rope or cable-making machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909040', 'Of machines and appliances for\ntreating metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909050', 'Of mixing, kneading, crushing,\ngrinding, screening, sifting,\nhomogenising, emulsifying or\nstirring machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909060', 'Of presses or extruding machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909070', 'Of machines and appliances of ships\nor fishing industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909080', 'Of automatic magnetic tape\nassembling machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8479909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480100000', 'Moulding boxes for metal foundry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480200000', 'Mould bases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480300000', 'Moulding patterns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480410000', 'Injection or compression types', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480500000', 'Moulds for glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480600000', 'Moulds for mineral materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480710000', 'Injection or compression types', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8480790000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481100000', 'Pressure-reducing valves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481201000', 'Valves for oleohydraulic\ntransmissions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481202000', 'Valves for pneumatic transmissions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481300000', 'Check (nonreturn) valves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481400000', 'Safety or relief valves', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481801010', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481801020', 'Hydraulic pressure operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481801030', 'Other automatically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481801090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481802000', 'Taps, cocks and traps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8481900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482102000', 'Of the inside diameter not exceeding\n100 ㎜', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['8482109000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E10'], ['8482200000', 'Tapered roller bearings, including\ncone and tapered roller assemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482300000', 'Spherical roller bearings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482400000', 'Needle roller bearings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482500000', 'Other cylindrical roller bearings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482800000', 'Other, including combined ball/roller\nbearings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482910000', 'Balls, needles and rollers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8482990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483101000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483109010', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483201000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483301000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483401010', 'Roller screws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409010', 'Gear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409020', 'Gear boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409030', 'Automatic transmissions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409041', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483409090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483501000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483601000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483602000', 'For wind-powered generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483901000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483902000', 'For wind-powered generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8483909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8484101000', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8484109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8484200000', 'Mechanical seals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8484900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486101000', 'Spin dryers by centrifugal process', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486102000', 'Apparatus for growing or pulling\nmonocrystal boules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486103011', 'Laser operated cutting machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486103019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486103020', 'Grinding or polishing machines for\nprocessing of wafer, including\nlapping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486103090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486104011', 'Machines for working any material\nby removal of material in the\nproduction of semiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486104019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486104021', 'Apparatus for stripping or cleaning\nwafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486104029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486105010', 'Resistance heated furnaces and\novens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486105020', 'Furnaces and ovens functioning by\ninduction or dielectric loss', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486105030', 'Other furnaces and ovens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486201000', 'Spin dryers by centrifugal process', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486202100', 'Resistance heated furnaces and\novens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486202210', 'For the manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices on\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486202290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486202310', 'Apparatus for rapid heating of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486202390', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486203000', 'Ion implanters for doping\nsemiconductor materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486204000', 'Machines for depositing membrance\nor sputtering metal on semiconductor\nwafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486205110', 'For semiconductor leads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486205190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486205910', 'For semiconductor leads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486205990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486206010', 'Direct write-on-semiconductor wafer\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486206020', 'Step and repeat aligners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486206091', 'Laser operated apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486206099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486207000', 'Apparatus for wet etching,\ndeveloping, stripping or cleaning\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208110', 'Laser cutters for cutting contacting\ntracks in semiconductor materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208120', 'Machines for working any material\nby removal of material in the\nproduction of semiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208410', 'For dry-etching patterns on\nsemiconductor materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208420', 'Apparatus for stripping or cleaning\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486208490', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209110', 'Spraying appliances for etching,\nstripping or cleaning semiconductor\nwafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209120', 'Deflash machines for cleaning and\nremoving contaminants from the\nmetal leads of semiconductor\npackages prior to the electroplating\nprocess', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209200', 'Machines of coating and developing\nor stabilizing photoresist', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209310', 'Grinding or polishing machines for\nprocessing of semiconductor wafer,\nincluding lapping machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209321', 'Laser operated apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209329', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209390', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209400', 'Machine for washing wafers, carrier\nor tube', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209500', 'Machine for mounting tape on\nsemiconductor wafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209600', 'Machine for sawing semiconductor\nwafer into chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486209900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486301000', 'Apparatus for wet etching,\ndeveloping, stripping or cleaning', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486302000', 'Apparatus for the projection or\ndrawing of circuit patterns on\nsensitised flat panel display\nsubstrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303010', 'Operated by laser or other light or\nphoton beam processes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303020', 'Operated by ultrasonic processes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303030', 'Operated by electro-discharge\nprocesses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303042', 'Dry etchers for manufacturing\norganic light-emitting diodes\n(OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303043', 'Other dry etchers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486303049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486304010', 'Grinding or polishing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486304090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305011', 'For manufacturing organic light-\nemitting diodes (OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305020', 'Coating and developing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305041', 'Operated by physical method', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305042', 'Operated by chemical method', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305051', 'Operated by physical method', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305052', 'Operated by chemical method', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486305059', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486306010', 'Seal, Short, Spacer or Liquid crystal\ndispenser', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486306020', 'Scribing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486306030', 'Panel assembler', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486306090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486307000', 'Centrifuges, including centrifugal\ndryers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486308000', 'Mechanical appliances for\nprojecting, dispersing or spraying', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'liquids or powders', '', ''], ['8486309020', 'Robots for making flat panel displays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486401010', 'Pattern generating apparatus of a\nkind used for producing masks or\nreticles from photoresist coated\nsubstrates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486401020', 'Focused ionic-beam milling\nmachines for removing or repairing\nmask and reticle', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486401030', 'Machines of coating, developing or\nstabilizing photoresist', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486401040', 'Machines and apparatus for etching,\ncleaning or stripping mask and\nreticle', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402010', 'Die attach apparatus, tape automated\nbonders, and wire bonders for\nassembly of semiconductors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402020', 'Machines for inserting or removing\nsemiconductor devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402031', 'Encapsulation equipment for\nassembly of semiconductors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402040', 'Machines to attach solder ball on\nsemiconductor circuit board or\nceramic board', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402050', 'Apparatus designed to bond or\ndetach wafer on ceramic block', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402070', 'Moulds for rubber or plastics of\ninjection or compression types', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402080', 'Machines for bonding semiconductor\ndie, washing wafers, carrier or tube', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402091', 'Machine-tools (including presses) for\nworking metal by bending, folding,\nstraightening, flattening, for\nsemiconductor leads, whether or not\nnumerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402092', 'Machine-tools (including presses) for\nworking metal by bending, folding,\nstraightening, flattening, other than\nsemiconductor leads, whether or not\nnumerically controlled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402093', 'Machines for forming\nconnections(bump) on an entire\nwafer before dicing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402094', 'Deflash machines for cleaning and\nremoving contaminants from the\nmetal leads of semiconductor\npackages prior to the electroplating\nprocess, for projecting, dispersing or\nspraying liquids or powders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402095', 'Resistance heated electric furnaces\nand ovens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486402099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486403010', 'Automated machines and apparatus\nfor transport, handling and storage of\nsemiconductor wafers, wafer\ncassettes, boxes and other material\nfor semiconductor devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486403020', 'For lifting, handling, loading or\nunloading of flat panel display', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486403090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486901010', 'Of subheading 8486.10.1000,\n8486.10.2000, 8486.10.3011,\n8486.10.3019, 8486.10.3020,\n8486.10.4011, 8486.10.4021,\n8486.10.5010, 8486.10.5020 or\n8486.10.5030', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486901020', 'Of subheading 8486.10.3090,\n8486.10.4019, 8486.10.4029 or\n8486.10.9000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486902010', 'Of subheading 8486.20.1000,\n8486.20.2100, 8486.20.2210,\n8486.20.2310, 8486.20.2390,\n8486.20.3000, 8486.20.4000,\n8486.20.5110, 8486.20.5910,\n8486.20.6010, 8486.20.6020,\n8486.20.6091, 8486.20.6099,\n8486.20.7000, 8486.20.8110,\n8486.20.8120, 8486.20.8410,\n8486.20.8420, 8486.20.9110,\n8486.20.9120, 8486.20.9190,\n8486.20.9200, 8486.20.9310,\n8486.20.9321, 8486.20.9329,\n8486.20.9400, 8486.20.9500 or\n8486.20.9600', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486902020', 'Of subheading 8486.20.2290,\n8486.20.5190, 8486.20.5990,\n8486.20.8190, 8486.20.8490,\n8486.20.9390 or 8486.20.9900', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486903010', 'Of subheading 8486.30.1000 or\n8486.30.2000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486903020', 'Of subheading 8486.30.3010,\n8486.30.3020, 8486.30.3030,\n8486.30.3043, 8486.30.3049,\n8486.30.4010, 8486.30.4090,\n8486.30.6020, 8486.30.7000,\n8486.30.8000, 8486.30.9020 or', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', '8486.30.9090', '', ''], ['8486903030', 'Of subheading 8486.30.5019,\n8486.30.5020, 8486.30.5051,\n8486.30.5052, 8486.30.5059,\n8486.30.6010, 8486.30.6030, or\n8486.30.6090', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486903040', 'Of subheading 8486.30.3042,\n8486.30.5011, 8486.30.5041,\n8486.30.5042 or 8486.30.5049', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486904010', 'Of subheading 8486.40.1010,\n8486.40.1020, 8486.40.1030,\n8486.40.2010, 8486.40.2031,\n8486.40.2070, 8486.40.2080,\n8486.40.2091, 8486.40.2094,\n8486.40.2095, 8486.40.3010,\n8486.40.3020, 8486.40.3090', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8486904020', 'Of subheading 8486.40.1040,\n8486.40.1090, 8486.40.2020,\n8486.40.2039, 8486.40.2040,\n8486.40.2050, 8486.40.2092,\n8486.40.2093, 8486.40.2099', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8487100000', "Ships' or boats' propellers and blades\ntherefor", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8487901000', 'For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8487909010', 'Oil seal rings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8487909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501101000', 'DC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501102000', 'AC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501103000', 'Universal AC/DC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501201000', 'Of an output exceeding 37.5 W, but\nnot exceeding 100 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501202000', 'Of an output exceeding 100 W, but\nnot exceeding 750 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501203000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501311010', 'Of an output not exceeding 100 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501312000', 'DC generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501321000', 'DC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501322000', 'DC generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501331000', 'DC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501332000', 'DC generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501341000', 'DC motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501342000', 'DC generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501401000', 'Of an output not exceeding 100 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501402000', 'Of an output exceeding 100 W but\nnot exceeding 750 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501403000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 W but\nnot exceeding 75 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501404000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501510000', 'Of an output not exceeding 750 W', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501520000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 W but\nnot exceeding 75 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501531000', 'Of an output not exceeding 375 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501532000', 'Of an output exceeding 375 kW but\nnot exceeding 1500 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501534000', 'Of an output exceeding 1500 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501611000', 'Of an output not exceeding 750 VA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501612000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 VA but\nnot exceeding 75 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501620000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501631000', 'Not less than an output equivalent to\n400 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501639000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8501640000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502111000', 'Of an output not exceeding 750 VA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502112000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 VA but\nnot exceeding 75 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502120000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502131010', 'Not less than an output equivalent to\n400 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502131090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502132000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 kVA but\nnot exceeding 3500 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502134000', 'Of an output exceeding 3500 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502201000', 'Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502202000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502203010', 'Not less than an output equivalent to\n400 kW', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502203090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502204000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502311000', 'Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502312000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502314000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502391000', 'Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502392000', 'Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502393000', 'Of an output exceeding 375 kVA but\nnot exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502394000', 'Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8502400000', 'Electric rotary converters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8503001000', 'Of motors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8503002010', 'For wind-powered generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8503002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8503003000', 'Of rotary converters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504101010', 'Rated at not more than 1 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504101020', 'Rated at more than 1 A but not more\nthan 20 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504102000', 'Rated at more than 20 A but not\nmore than 60 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504103000', 'Rated at more than 60 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504211000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504219010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 100 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504219020', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 100 kVA but not\nexceeding 650 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504221000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504229010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 650 kVA but not\nexceeding 1,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504229020', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 1,000 kVA but not\nexceeding 5,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504229030', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 5,000 kVA but not\nexceeding 10,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504230000', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504311000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504312000', 'Voltage regulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504319010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 100 VA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504319020', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 100 VA but not exceeding\n500 VA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504319040', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 500 VA but not exceeding\n1 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504321000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504322000', 'Voltage regulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504329010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 1 kVA but not exceeding 5\nkVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504329020', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 5 kVA but not exceeding\n16 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504331000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504332000', 'Voltage regulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504339010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 16 kVA but not exceeding\n30 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504339020', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 30 kVA but not exceeding\n100 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504339040', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 100 kVA but not\nexceeding 500 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504341000', 'Instrument transformers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504342000', 'Voltage regulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504349010', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 500 kVA but not\nexceeding 2,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504349030', 'Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 2,000 kVA', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504401010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504401090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504402011', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504402019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504402091', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504402099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504403010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'thereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '', ''], ['8504403090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504404010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504404090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504405010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504405090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504409011', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504409019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504409091', 'For telecommunication apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504409099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504501010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504501090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504502010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504502090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504509010', 'For automatic data processing\nmachines and units of heading 8471\nor of subheading 8443.31 or 8443.32\nor 8528.42 or 8528.52 or 8528.62\nthereof, and telecommunication\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504509090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8504901000', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) of\nsubheadings 8504.40, 8504.50 which\nconsist of one or more printed\ncircuits of heading 85.34, for\nautomatic data processing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'and units thereof and\ntelecommunication apparatus', '', ''], ['8504909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505111000', 'Of alnico', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505191000', 'Of iron oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505200000', 'Electro-magnetic couplings, clutches\nand brakes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505901010', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor magnetic resonance imaging\napparatus other than electromagnets\nof heading 90.18', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505902000', 'Electro-magnetic or permanent\nmagnet chucks, clamps, vices and\nsimilar work holders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505903000', 'Electro-magnetic lifting heads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8505909000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506101000', 'Manganese batteries', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8506102000', 'Alkali manganese batteries', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8506109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506300000', 'Mercuric oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506400000', 'Silver oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506500000', 'Lithium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506600000', 'Air-Zinc', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506801000', 'Zinc oxide', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8506900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507100000', 'Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting\npiston engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507200000', 'Other lead-acid accumulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507300000', 'Nickel-cadmium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507400000', 'Nickel-iron', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507500000', 'Nickel-metal hydride', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507601000', 'Lithium polymer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507800000', 'Other accumulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507901000', 'Seperators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8507909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508111000', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508192000', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508600000', 'Other vacuum cleaners', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508701000', 'Of subheading 8508.11.9000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508702000', 'Of subheading 8508.19.9000 or\n8508.60.0000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8508703000', 'Of subheading 8508.11.1000 or\n8508.19.2000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509400000', 'Food grinders and mixers; fruit or\nvegetable juice extractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509801000', 'Coffee grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509802000', 'Ice grinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509803000', 'Floor polishers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509804000', 'Kitchen waste disposers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8509900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510100000', 'Shavers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510200000', 'Hair clippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510300000', 'Hair-removing appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510901000', 'Of shavers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510902000', 'Of hair clippers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8510903000', 'Of hair-removing appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511101000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511201000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511301000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511401000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511501000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511801000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511901000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8511909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512101000', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512201010', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512202010', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512300000', 'Sound signalling equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512400000', 'Windscreen wipers, defrosters and\ndemisters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8512900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513101000', 'Safety lamps of a kind used in\nmining', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513102010', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513109010', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8513900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514101000', 'For laboratory', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514102000', 'For metal industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514103000', 'For food industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514201000', 'For laboratory', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514202000', 'For metal industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514203000', 'For food industry', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514301000', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed\ncircuits or printed circuit assemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514401000', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514901000', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514902000', 'Of furnaces and ovens of a kind used\nsolely or principally for the\nmanufacture of printed circuits or\nprinted circuit assemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8514909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515110000', 'Soldering irons and guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515191000', 'Wave soldering machine of a kind\nused solely or principally for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515211010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515212010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515212090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515213010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515213090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515219010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515219090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515291000', 'Spot welders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515292000', 'Seam welders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515293000', 'Butt welders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515311010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515311090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515319010', 'Of robot type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515319090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515391000', 'AC arc welding machines and\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515801000', 'Ultrasonic machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515802000', 'Electron beam machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515803000', 'Laser operated machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515901010', 'Of a laser operated welder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515902000', 'Of wave soldering machine of a kind\nused solely or principally for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8515909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516100000', 'Electric instantaneous or storage\nwater heaters and immersion heaters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516210000', 'Storage heating radiators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516310000', 'Hair dryers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516320000', 'Other hair-dressing apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516330000', 'Hand-drying apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516400000', 'Electric smoothing irons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516500000', 'Microwave ovens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516601000', 'Electrical ovens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516602000', 'Electric rice cookers(including with\nconstant warming function)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516710000', 'Coffee or tea makers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516720000', 'Toasters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516791000', 'Electric jar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516800000', 'Electric heating resistors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8516900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517110000', 'Line telephone sets with cordless\nhandsets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517121010', 'With digital broadcasting receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517121090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517122010', 'With digital broadcasting receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517122090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517123010', 'With digital broadcasting receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517123090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517124010', 'With digital broadcasting receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517124090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517129010', 'With digital broadcasting receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517181000', 'Of push button type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517189000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517611000', 'Base stations transceiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517621000', 'Teleprinters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517622010', 'For public exchange', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517622020', 'For private exchange', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517622090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623110', 'Terminal equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623120', 'Repeater', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623210', 'Terminal equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623220', 'Repeater', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623310', 'Optical repeater', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623320', 'Optical terminal equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623390', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623410', 'Analog to digital, digital to analog\nconverter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623420', 'Codec (coder and decoder )', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623430', 'Modem (including modem card)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623490', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623510', 'FDM (frequency division\nmodulation) type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623520', 'TDM (time division modulation)\ntype', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623590', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517623900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517624010', 'Key-phone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517624020', 'Picture telegraphic apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517624090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517625000', 'Transmission apparatus for radio-\ntelephony, radio-telegraphy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626020', 'Picture telegraphic apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626031', 'Walkie-talkie sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626050', 'Switching apparatus for radio\ntelecommunication', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626060', 'Repeater for radio\ntelecommunication', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517626090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517627000', 'Other units of automatic data\nprocessing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517629000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517691100', 'HF (high frequency), MF (medium\nfrequency) or LF(low frequency)\nreceiving apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517691211', 'Portable receivers for calling alerting\nor paging', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517691219', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517691290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517691900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517692000', 'Videophones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701010', 'Of line telephone sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701021', 'Key pads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701022', 'Frames', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701023', 'Display modules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517701090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517702000', 'Of subheading 8517.61', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703010', 'Of teleprinters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703021', 'Of public exchange', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703022', 'Of private exchange', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703031', 'Of co-axial cable carrier equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703032', 'Of optical fibre transmission system', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703041', 'Of picture telegraphic apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703049', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703050', 'Of transmission apparatus for radio-\ntelephony, radio-telegraphy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703061', 'Display modules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703069', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703070', 'Other units of automatic data\nprocessing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517703090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517704011', 'Of portable receiver for calling,\nalerting or paging', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517704019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517704020', 'Of videophones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8517704090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518101000', 'Microphones having a frequency\nrange of 300 Hz to 3.4KHz with a\ndiameter of not exceeding 10mm and\na height not exceeding 3 mm, for\ntelecommunication use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518109010', 'Wireless microphones, including a\nset of wireless microphones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518210000', 'Single loudspeakers, mounted in\ntheir enclosures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518220000', 'Multiple loudspeakers, mounted in\nthe same enclosure', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518291000', 'For telecommunication use, (without\nhousing, having a frequency range of\n300 Hz to 3.4 KHz with a diameter\nof not exceeding 50 mm)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518304000', 'Line telephone handsets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518400000', 'Audio-frequency electric amplifiers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518500000', 'Electric sound amplifier sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518901000', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) of\nsubheadings 8518.10.1000,\n8518.29.1000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8518909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519201000', 'Coin- or disc-operated record-\nplayers, not incorporating a sound\nrecording device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519209000', 'Other, not incorporating a sound\nrecording device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519301000', 'With automatic record changing\nmechanism', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519500000', 'Telephone answering machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519811000', 'Transcribing machines, not\nincorporating a sound recording\ndevice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812100', 'Cassette-players, as defined in\nSubheading Note 1 to Chapter 85', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812210', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812220', 'Of portable type, other than as\ndefined in Subheading Notes 1 to\nChapter 85', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812310', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812320', 'Of portable type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812390', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519812900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519813000', 'Dictating machines not capable of\noperating without an external source\nof power', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814111', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814112', 'Of portable type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814119', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814200', 'Other, cassette-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519814300', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519815020', 'Of disc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519815030', 'Cassette-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519815090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519819000', 'Other sound recording apparatus,\nwhether or not incorporating a sound\nreproducing device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519891000', 'Other record-players, not\nincorporating a sound recording\ndevice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519893000', 'Decks, whether or not incorporating\na sound reproducing device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519899010', 'Other sound reproducing apparatus,\nnot incorporating a sound recording\ndevice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8519899020', 'Other sound recording apparatus,\nwhether or not incorporating a sound\nreproducing device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8521100000', 'Magnetic tape-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8521901000', 'Of disc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8521909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522100000', 'Pick-up cartridges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522901020', 'For video recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522902000', 'Laser pick-up', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522909010', 'Flat panel displays(including LCD,\nEL(electro luminescence), plasma\nand other technologies)for telephone\nanswering machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522909020', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) of\ntelephone answering machines,\nwhich consist of one or more printed\ncircuits of heading 85.34', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8522909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523210000', 'Cards incorporating a magnetic\nstripe, whether or not recording', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523291110', 'Of a width not exceeding 4 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523291120', 'Of a width exceeding 4 ㎜ but not\nexceeding 6.5 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523291130', 'Of a width exceeding 6.5 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523291200', 'Magnetic discs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523291900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292111', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292119', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292121', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292129', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292131', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292139', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292210', 'Of a width not exceeding 4 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292220', 'Of a width exceeding 4 ㎜ but not\nexceeding 6.5 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292231', 'Those recorded video', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292239', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292911', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292919', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292991', 'Those recorded video', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292992', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523292999', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523410000', 'Unrecorded', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523491011', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523491019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523491020', 'For reproducing sound only', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523491031', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523491039', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523499011', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523499019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523499091', 'Those recorded video', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523499092', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523499099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523511000', 'Unrecorded media', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523512110', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523512190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523512920', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523512990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523521000', 'Cards incorporating an electronic\nintegrated circuit and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523529000', 'Other and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523591000', 'Unrecorded media', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523592110', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523592190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523592920', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523592990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523593000', 'Proximity cards and tags', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523801000', 'Unrecorded media', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523802100', 'Gramophone records', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523802210', 'Containing computer software', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523802290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523802920', 'For reproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound, and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable\nbinary form, and capable of being\nmanipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8523802990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525501000', 'Radio-broadcasting apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525502000', 'Television transmission apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525601000', 'Radio-broadcasting apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525602000', 'Television transmission apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525801010', 'For video tape recorder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525801020', 'For monitor television', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525801090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525802010', 'Still image video cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525802090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8525803000', 'Video camera recorders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526101000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526911010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526912010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526912090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526913010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526913020', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526913090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526914000', 'Loran receivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526919010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526919020', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526919090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8526920000', 'Radio remote control apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527120000', 'Pocket-size radio cassette-players', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527131000', 'Of cassette-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527132000', 'Of disc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527133000', 'Combined with cassette-type and\ndisc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527139000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527211000', 'Of cassette-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527212010', 'Capable of receiving and decoding\ndigital radio data system signals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527212090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527213010', 'Capable of receiving and decoding\ndigital radio data system signals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527213090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527219010', 'Capable of receiving and decoding\ndigital radio data system signals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527219090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527911010', 'Of cassette-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527911020', 'Of disc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527911030', 'Combined with cassette-type and\ndisc type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527920000', 'Not combined with sound recording\nor reproducing apparatus but\ncombined with a clock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8527990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528420000', 'Capable of directly connecting to and\ndesigned for use with an automatic\ndata processing machine of heading\n84.71', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528491010', 'Of specially manufactured for\nmedical purpose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528491090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528492010', 'Of specially manufactured for\nmedical purpose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528492090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528521000', 'LCD(liquid crystal display) monitor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528591010', 'Of specially manufactured for\nmedical purpose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528591090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528592010', 'Of specially manufactured for\nmedical purpose', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528592090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528620000', 'Capable of directly connecting to and\ndesigned for use with an automatic\ndata processing machine of heading\n84.71', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528690000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528711000', 'Video tuner', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528712020', 'With a bilateral-communication\nfunction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528712090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528719000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528721010', 'Of analog', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528721020', 'Of digital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528722010', 'Of analog', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528722020', 'Of digital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528723010', 'Of analog', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528723020', 'Of digital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528724010', 'Of analog', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528724020', 'Of digital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528725010', 'Of analog', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528725020', 'Of digital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528729000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528732000', 'Of the length of fluorescent screen of\nbraun tube less than 45.72 cm in\ndiagonal line', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528733000', 'Of the length of fluorescent screen of\nbraun tube not less than 45.72 cm in\ndiagonal line', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8528739000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529101000', 'For radar apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529109100', 'For radio navigational aid or radio\nremote control apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529109210', 'For receiving from satellites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529109290', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529109300', 'Of a kind used with apparatus for\nradiotelephony and radiotelegraphy', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529109900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529901000', 'Of radar apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909100', 'Of radio navigational aid or radio\nremote control apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909200', 'Of transmission apparatus for radio-\nbroadcasting or television', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909400', 'Of radio-broadcast receivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909500', 'Of television cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909610', 'Tuner for colour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909620', 'Tuner for black and white or\nmonochrome', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909630', 'Screen for video projector', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909641', 'For plasma display panel type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909642', 'For liquid cristal display (LCD) type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909643', 'For organic light-emitting display\n(OLED) type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909649', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909650', 'Other parts for black and white or\nmonochrome', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909910', 'Of transmission apparatus\nincorporating reception apparatus or\ndigital cameras (including digital still\nimage video cameras)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909921', 'Display modules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909929', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8529909990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8530101010', 'For ground equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8530101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8530109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8530800000', 'Other equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8530900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531101000', 'Burglar alarms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531102000', 'Fire alarms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531103000', 'Gas alarms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531104000', 'Electric bells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531105000', 'Sirens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531109000', 'Other sound or signalling apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531201000', 'Indicator panels incorporating liquid\ncrystal devices (LCD)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531202000', 'Indicator panels incorporating light-\nemitting diodes (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531802000', 'Doorbells, chimes, buzzers or similar\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531901000', 'Of subheading 8531.10', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531902000', 'Of subheading 8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8531909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532100000', 'Fixed capacitors designed for use in\n50/60 Hz circuits and having a\nreactive power handling capacity of\nnot less than 0.5 kvar (power\ncapacitors)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532210000', 'Tantalum', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532220000', 'Aluminium electrolytic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532230000', 'Ceramic dielectric, single layer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532240000', 'Ceramic dielectric, multilayer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532250000', 'Dielectric of paper or plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532301000', 'Variable polyethylene capacitors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532901000', 'Of fixed capacitors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532902000', 'Of variable capacitors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8532909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533100000', 'Fixed carbon resistors, composition\nor film types', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533212000', 'Thermistor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533292000', 'Thermistor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533310000', 'For a power handling capacity not', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'exceeding 20 W', '', ''], ['8533390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533401000', 'Variable carbon resistors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533403000', 'Varistor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533901000', 'Of variable resistors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8533909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8534001000', 'Obtained by forming with passive\nelements (inductances, resistors and\ncapacitors)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8534002000', 'Of tape type or obtained by forming\nwith circuits which function as lead\nframes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8534009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535100000', 'Fuses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535211000', 'Rated at less than 7.25 kV', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535212000', 'Rated at 7.25 kV and more but less\nthan 72.5 kV', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535291000', 'Rated at less than 200 kV', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535292000', 'Rated at 200 kV and more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535301000', 'Rated at less than 7.25 kV', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535302000', 'Rated at 7.25 kV and more but less\nthan 72.5 kV', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535303000', 'Rated at 72.5 kV and more', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535400000', 'Lightning arresters, voltage limiters\nand surge suppressors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535901000', 'Connector', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535902000', 'Electrical terminal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8535909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536101000', 'Of tube-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536200000', 'Automatic circuit breakers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536300000', 'Other apparatus for protecting\nelectrical circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536410000', 'For a voltage not exceeding 60 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536490000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536501000', 'Rotary type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536502000', 'Push-button type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536503000', 'Micro-type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536504000', 'Of magnet switches (including\nmagnetic contactors)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536509010', 'Electromechanical snap-action\nswitches for a current not exceeding\n11 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536509020', 'Electronic AC switches consisting of\noptically coupled input and output\ncircuits (Insulated thyristor AC\nswitches)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536509030', 'Of temperature protected, consisting\nof a transistor and a logic chip (chip-\non-chip technology) for a voltage not\nexceeding 1,000 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536509090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536610000', 'Lamp-holders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536691000', 'For co-axial cables and printed\ncircuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536701000', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536702000', 'Of ceramic wares for laboratory,\nchemical or other technical uses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536703010', 'Cast, moulded, stamped or forged,\nbut not further worked', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536703090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536901000', 'Junction boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536902000', 'Battery clamp of a kind used for\nmotor vehicles of heading\n8702,8703,8704 or 8711', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536909010', 'Connection and contact elements for\nwires or cables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8536909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537101000', 'Switch boards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537102010', 'Numerical control panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537102020', 'Programmable controllers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537201000', 'Switch boards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537202000', 'Control panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8537209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538100000', 'Boards, panels, consoles, desks,\ncabinets and other bases for the\ngoods of heading 85.37, not\nequipped with their apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538901000', 'Of switches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538902000', 'Of automatic circuit breakers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538903000', 'Of relays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538904000', 'Of control panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8538909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539100000', 'Sealed beam lamp units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539210000', 'Tungsten halogen', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539221000', 'Incandescent lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539222000', 'Decoration lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539223000', 'Beam lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539224000', 'Attracting fish lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539229000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539310000', 'Fluorescent, hot cathode', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539321000', 'Mercury lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539322000', 'Sodium vapour lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539323000', 'Metal halide lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539391010', 'For backlighting of flat panel\ndisplays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539391090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539410000', 'Arc lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539491010', 'Of machines and mechanical\nappliances for making semiconductor\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539491090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539492000', 'Infra-red lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539500000', 'Light-emitting diode (LED) lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539901000', 'Of filament lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539902000', 'Of discharge lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8539909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540110000', 'Colour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540120000', 'Monochrome', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540200000', 'Television camera tubes; image\nconverters and intensifiers; other\nphoto-cathode tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540400000', 'Data/graphic display tubes,\nmonochrome; data/graphic display\ntubes, colour, with a phosphor dot\nscreen pitch smaller than 0.4 ㎜', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540601000', 'Colour', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540710000', 'Magnetrons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540791000', 'Klystrons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540810000', 'Receiver or amplifier valves and\ntubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540891000', 'Thermionic valves and tubes for\ntransmitters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540892000', 'Discharge tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540899000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540911000', 'Deflection coils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540912000', 'Electron guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540913000', 'Shadow mask', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8540990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541101000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541211000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541291000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541301000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541302000', 'Thyristors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541303000', 'Diacs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541304000', 'Triacs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541401000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541402010', 'Laser devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541402090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409010', 'Photoconductive cells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409021', 'Solar cells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409022', 'Solar modules, including solar cells\nassembled into modules or panels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409030', 'Charge coupled devices (CCD)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541409090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541501000', 'Chips, dice and wafers not yet cut\ninto chips', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541502000', 'Rectifier devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541601000', 'Crystal vibrator', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541902000', 'Of diodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541903000', 'Of transistors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8541909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542311000', 'Monolithic integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542312000', 'Hybrid integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542313000', 'Multichip integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314010', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the arms and ammunition of\nheading 93.01 or 93.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314020', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and apparatus\nfor aircraft of heading 90.32', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314030', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of heading 85.17', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314040', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of subheading\n8528.41, 8528.51, 8528.61 or\n8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314050', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and appliances\nand machines for the purpose of\nsemiconductor manufacturing of\nheading 90.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314060', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machine and apparatus of\nheading 84.25, 85.26, 84.28, 84.29,\n84.30, 8443.99, 84.70, 84.71, 84.72,\n90.26, 90.30, or 95.04.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542314090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542321010', 'DRAM (Dynamic random access\nmemory)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542321020', 'SRAM (Static random access\nmemory)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542321030', 'Flash memory', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542321090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542322000', 'Hybrid integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542323000', 'Multichip integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324010', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the arms and ammunition of\nheading 93.01 or 93.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324020', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and apparatus\nfor aircraft of heading 90.32', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324030', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of heading 85.17', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324040', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of subheading\n8528.41, 8528.51, 8528.61 or\n8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324050', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and appliances\nand machines for the purpose of\nsemiconductor manufacturing of\nheading 90.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324060', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machine and apparatus of\nheading 84.25, 85.26, 84.28, 84.29,\n84.30, 8443.99, 84.70, 84.71, 84.72,\n90.26, 90.30, or 95.04.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542324090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542331000', 'Monolithic integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542332000', 'Hybrid integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542333000', 'Multichip integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334010', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the arms and ammunition of\nheading 93.01 or 93.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334020', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and apparatus\nfor aircraft of heading 90.32', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334030', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of heading 85.17', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334040', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of subheading\n8528.41, 8528.51, 8528.61 or\n8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334050', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and appliances\nand machines for the purpose of\nsemiconductor manufacturing of\nheading 90.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334060', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machine and apparatus of\nheading 84.25, 85.26, 84.28, 84.29,\n84.30, 8443.99, 84.70, 84.71, 84.72,\n90.26, 90.30, or 95.04.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542334090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542391000', 'Monolithic integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542392000', 'Hybrid integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542393000', 'Multichip integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394010', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the arms and ammunition of\nheading 93.01 or 93.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394020', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and apparatus\nfor aircraft of heading 90.32', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394030', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of heading 85.17', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394040', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of subheading\n8528.41, 8528.51, 8528.61 or\n8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394050', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and appliances\nand machines for the purpose of\nsemiconductor manufacturing of\nheading 90.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394060', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machine and apparatus of\nheading 84.25, 85.26, 84.28, 84.29,\n84.30, 8443.99, 84.70, 84.71, 84.72,\n90.26, 90.30, or 95.04.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542394090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542901000', 'Of monolithic integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542902000', 'Of hybrid integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542903000', 'Of multichip integrated circuits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904010', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the arms and ammunition of\nheading 93.01 or 93.06', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904020', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and apparatus\nfor aircraft of heading 90.32', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904030', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of heading 85.17', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904040', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the apparatus of subheading\n8528.41, 8528.51, 8528.61 or\n8531.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904050', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the instruments and appliances\nand machines for the purpose of\nsemiconductor manufacturing of\nheading 90.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904060', 'Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machine and apparatus of\nheading 84.25, 85.26, 84.28, 84.29,\n84.30, 8443.99, 84.70, 84.71, 84.72,\n90.26, 90.30, or 95.04.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8542904090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543100000', 'Particle accelerators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543200000', 'Signal generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543301000', 'Of a kind used solely or principally\nfor the manufacture of printed\ncircuits, other than for\nelectrophoresis', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543701000', 'Electric fence energisers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702010', 'Medicated water electrolysis\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702020', 'Electrical beauty appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702030', 'Audio mixers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702040', 'Equalizers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702050', 'Ozon generator', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543702090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543703000', 'Electrical machines with translation\nor dictionary functions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543704010', 'Of containing solutions with nicotine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543704090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543705000', 'Articles for connection to telegraphic\nor telephonic apparatus or\ninstruments or to telegraphic or\ntelephonic networks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709010', 'High frequency amplifiers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709020', 'Detectors, including optical sensor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709040', 'Cordless infrared remote control\ndevices for video game consoles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709050', 'Digital flight-data recorders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709060', 'Portable battery operated electronic\nreader for recording and reproducing\ntext, still image or audio file', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709070', 'Digital signal processing apparatus\ncapable of connecting to a wired or\nwireless network for the mixing of\nsound', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543709090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543901000', 'Electronic microassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543909011', 'Organic light-emitting diodes\n(OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543909019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543909020', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) for\nelectrical machines with translation\nor dictionary functions, which\nconsist of one or more printed\ncircuits of heading 85.34', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8543909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544111000', 'Insulating lacquer or enamel\ninsulated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544200000', 'Co-axial cable and other co-axial\nelectric conductors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544300000', 'Ignition wiring sets and other wiring\nsets of a kind used in vehicles,\naircraft or ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544421010', 'Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544421090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544422010', 'Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544422090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544429010', 'Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544429090', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['8544491011', 'For a voltage not exceeding 80 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544491012', 'For a voltage exceeding 80V but not\nexceeding 1,000 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544491090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544492011', 'For a voltage not exceeding 80 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544492012', 'For a voltage exceeding 80 V but not\nexceeding 1,000 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544492090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544499011', 'For a voltage not exceeding 80 V', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544499012', 'For a voltage exceeding 80 V but not\nexceeding 1,000 V', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['8544499090', 'Other', '0.0% / 5.0%', 'E0'], ['8544601010', 'Plastic insulated wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544601090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544602010', 'Plastic insulated wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544602090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544603010', 'Plastic insulated wire', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8544603090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8544700000', 'Optical fibre cables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8545110000', 'Of a kind used for furnaces', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8545190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8545200000', 'Brushes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8545901000', 'Carbon rod', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8545909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8546100000', 'Of glass', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8546200000', 'Of ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8546901000', 'Artificial plastic insulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8546909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8547100000', 'Insulating fittings of ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8547200000', 'Insulating fittings of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8547900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548101000', 'Of subheading 3824.84 to 3824.88,\n3824.91 or 3824.99', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548102000', 'Of subheading 7204.21, 7204.29,\n7204.30 or 7204.49', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548103000', 'Of subheading 7404.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548104000', 'Of subheading 7503.00 or 7902.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548105000', 'Of subheading 7802.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548106000', 'Of subheading 8107.30 or 8111.00', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548107000', 'Of subheading 8506.10, 8506.30,\n8506.40, 8506.50, 8506.60 or\n8506.80', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548901000', 'Electronic microassemblies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548902010', 'Of organic light-emitting diodes\n(OLED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8548909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8601100000', 'Powered from an external source of\nelectricity', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8601200000', 'Powered by electric accumulators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8602100000', 'Diesel-electric locomotives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8602900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8603101000', 'Coaches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8603102000', 'Vans and trucks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8603901000', 'Coaches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8603902000', 'Vans and trucks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8604004000', 'Track inspection vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8604009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8605001000', 'Coaches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8605002000', 'Luggage vans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8605009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8606100000', 'Tank wagons and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8606300000', 'Self-discharging vans and wagons,\nother than those of subheading\n8606.10.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8606910000', 'Covered and closed', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8606920000', 'Open, with non-removable sides of a\nheight exceeding 60 cm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8606990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607110000', 'Driving bogies and bissel-bogies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607120000', 'Other bogies and bissel-bogies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607191000', 'Axles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607192000', 'Wheels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607193000', 'Pair of axle and wheel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607210000', 'Air brakes and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607301000', 'Hooks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607302000', 'Coupling device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607303000', 'Buffers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607910000', 'Of locomotives', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8607990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8608001000', 'Railway or tramway track fixtures\nand fittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8608002000', 'Mechanical signalling, safety or\ntraffic control equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8608009000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609001000', 'For the transport of fluids', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609002000', 'For the transport of compressed gas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609003000', 'For the transport of ordinary goods\nand material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609004000', 'For the transport of live animals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609005000', 'Of freezer and refrigerator', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8609009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701100000', 'Single axle tractors', '5.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8701201000', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701202000', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701300000', 'Track-laying tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701911010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701911020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701912000', 'Agricultural tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701921010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701921020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701922000', 'Agricultural tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701931010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701931020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701932000', 'Agricultural tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701939000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701941010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701941020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701942000', 'Agricultural tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701949000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701951010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701951020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701952000', 'Agricultural tractors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8701959000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702101010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702101020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702102010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702102020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702103010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702103020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702201000', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702202000', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8702301000', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702302000', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702401000', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702402000', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702901010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702901020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702902010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702902020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702903010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8702903020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703101000', 'For travelling on snow', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703102000', 'Golf cars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703217000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703218000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703227000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703228000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703231010', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703231020', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703239010', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703239020', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703241010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703241020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703249010', 'New', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703249020', 'Used', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8703317000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703318000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703321010', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703321020', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703329010', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703329020', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703337000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703338000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703401000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703402000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703501000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703502000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703601000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703602000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703701000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703702000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703801000', 'New', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703802000', 'Used', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8703900000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8704100000', 'Dumpers designed for off-highway\nuse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8704211010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704211020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704219010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704219020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704219090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704221011', 'New', '0.0% /', 'E0'], ['', '', '10.0%', ''], ['8704221012', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704221091', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704221092', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704229010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704229020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704229090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704231010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704231020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704239010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704239020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704239090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704311010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704311020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704319010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704319020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704319090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704321010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704321020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704329010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704329020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704329090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704901010', 'New', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704901020', 'Used', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704909010', 'Freezer and refrigerator vehicles', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704909020', 'Tank lorries', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8704909090', 'Other', '0.0% /\n10.0%', 'E0'], ['8705101000', 'Of telescopic boom type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705102000', 'Of latticed boom type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705200000', 'Mobile drilling derricks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705300000', 'Fire fighting vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705400000', 'Concrete-mixer lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705901010', 'Agricultural spraying lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909010', 'Breakdown lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909020', 'Road sweeper lorries', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909030', 'Mobile workshops', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909040', 'Mobile broadcast vans', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909050', 'Mobile clinics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909060', 'Telegraphy, radiotelegraphy and\nradiotelephony transmitting and\nreceiving vans and radar vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909070', 'Snow-ploughs and snow-blowers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8705909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8706001000', 'For the motor Vehicles falling within\nheading 87.01', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8706002000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.02', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8706003000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8706004000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.04', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8706005000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.05', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8707100000', 'For the vehicles of heading 87.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8707901000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.01', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8707902000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.02', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8707903000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.04', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8707904000', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.05', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708100000', 'Bumpers and parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708210000', 'Safety seat belts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708290000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708301000', 'Mounted brake linings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708302000', 'Brake booster', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708303000', 'Electronic control brakes', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708309000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708400000', 'Gear boxes and parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708501000', 'Drive-axles with differential,\nwhether or not provided with other\ntransmission components and parts\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708502000', 'Non-driving axles and parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708700000', 'Road wheels and parts and\naccessories thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708800000', 'Suspension systems and parts thereof\n(including shock-absorbers)', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708910000', 'Radiators and parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708920000', 'Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust\npipes; parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708930000', 'Clutches and parts thereof', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8708940000', 'Steering wheels, steering columns\nand steering boxes; parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708951000', 'Air bags', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708959000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708991010', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.01', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708991020', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.02', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708991030', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.03', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708991040', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.04', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708991050', 'For the motor vehicles falling within\nheading 87.05', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8708999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8709110000', 'Electrical', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8709190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8709900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8710001000', 'Tanks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8710002000', 'Other armoured fighting vehicles,\nmotorised', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8710009000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711101000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8711102000', 'Mopeds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711109000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8711201000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8711209000', 'Other', '0.0% / 8.0%', 'E0'], ['8711301000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711401000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711501000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711601000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711901000', 'Motor cycles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8711909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8712001000', 'Racing bicycles', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8712009020', 'Tricycles', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8712009090', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8713100000', 'Not mechanically propelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8713900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8714101000', 'Saddles', '8.0%', 'E0'], ['8714109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8714200000', 'Of carriages for disabled persons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8714911000', 'Frames', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714912000', 'Forks', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714919000', 'Parts thereof', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714921000', 'Wheel Rims', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714922000', 'Spokes', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714931000', 'Hubs, other than coaster braking\nhubs and hub brakes', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714932000', 'Free-wheel sprocket-wheels', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714941000', 'Brakes', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714949000', 'Parts thereof', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714950000', 'Saddles', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714961000', 'Pedals', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714962000', 'Crankgear', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714969000', 'Parts thereof', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8714990000', 'Other', '5.0%', 'E0'], ['8715000000', 'Baby carriages and parts thereof.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716100000', 'Trailers and semi-trailers of the\ncaravan type, for housing or camping', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716200000', 'Self-loading or self-unloading\ntrailers and semi-trailers for\nagricultural purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716310000', 'Tanker trailers and tanker semi-\ntrailers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716400000', 'Other trailers and semi-trailers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716801000', 'Hand-carts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716802000', 'Carts drawn by ox or horse', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716803000', 'Sledges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716901000', 'Of trailers and semi-trailers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8716909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8801001000', 'Gliders and hang gliders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8801009010', 'Balloons and dirigibles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8801009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802111000', 'For military use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802121000', 'For military use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802201000', 'Of propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802202000', 'Of turbo-propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802203000', 'Of turbo-jet type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802301000', 'Of propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802302000', 'Of turbo-propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802303000', 'Of turbo-jet type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802401000', 'Of propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802402000', 'Of turbo-propeller type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802403000', 'Of turbo-jet type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802601010', 'Satellites', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802601090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802602000', 'Spacecraft launch vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8802603000', 'Suborbital', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803100000', 'Propellers and rotors and parts\nthereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803200000', 'Under-carriages and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803301000', 'Of aeroplanes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803302000', 'Of helicopters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803901000', 'Of gliders and hang gliders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803902000', 'Spacecraft (including satelliters)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8803909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8804001000', 'Parachutes (including dirigible\nparachutes and paragliders)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8804002000', 'Rotochutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8804009010', 'Of parachutes (including dirigible\nparachutes and paragliders)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8804009020', 'Of rotochutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805101010', 'For military use and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805102010', 'For military use and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805109010', 'For military use and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805211010', 'For military and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805212010', 'For military and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805212090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805291010', 'For military and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805291090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805292010', 'For military and police use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8805292090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8901100000', 'Cruise ships, excursion boats and\nsimilar vessels principally designed\nfor the transport of persons; ferry-\nboats of all kinds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8901200000', 'Tankers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8901300000', 'Refrigerated vessels, other than those\nof subheading 8901.20', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8901901000', 'Vessels for the transport of goods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8901902000', 'Vessels for the transport of both\npersons and goods', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902001010', 'Steel ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902001020', 'FRP ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902001030', 'Wooden ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902002010', 'Factory ships and other vessels for\nprocessing, preserving fishery\nproducts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8902002090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8903100000', 'Inflatable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8903910000', 'Sailboats, with or without auxiliary\nmotor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8903920000', 'Motorboats, other than outboard\nmotorboats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8903991000', 'Outboard motorboats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8903999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8904001000', 'Tugs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8904002000', 'Pusher craft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8904009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905100000', 'Dredgers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905201000', 'Drilling ships platforms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905202000', 'Production platforms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905901000', 'Light-vessels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905902000', 'Fire-floats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905903000', 'Floating cranes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905905000', 'Salvage ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905907000', 'Drilling ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905908000', 'Floating docks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8905909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8906100000', 'War ships', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8906900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907100000', 'Inflatable rafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907901000', 'Rafts (other than subheading\n8907.10)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907902000', 'Tanks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907903000', 'Coffer-dams', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907904000', 'Landing-stages', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907905000', 'Buoys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907906000', 'Beacons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8907909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8908001000', 'Ship, boats and other vessels for\nbreaking up', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['8908009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001101000', 'Optical fibres', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001102000', 'Optical fibre bundles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001103000', 'Optical fibre cables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001200000', 'Sheets and plates of polarising\nmaterial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001300000', 'Contact lenses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001401000', 'For vision correction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001501000', 'For vision correction', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001901000', 'Prisms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001902000', 'Mirrors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001903000', 'Other lenses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9001909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002111000', 'For photographic cameras.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002119010', 'For movie cameras and VTR(video\ntape recorder) cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002119020', 'For projectors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002119090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002191000', 'For microscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002192000', 'For astronomical telescopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002201000', 'For photographic cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002901000', 'For photographic cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002909010', 'Of machines and mechanical\nappliances for making semiconductor\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9002909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9003110000', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9003191000', 'Made of or combined with precious\nmetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9003199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9003900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004101000', 'Made of or combined with precious\nmetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004901000', 'Spectacles for correcting visions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004902000', '3D glasses(Active or passive)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004909010', 'Made of, or combined with, precious\nmetals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9004909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005100000', 'Binoculars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005801000', 'Monoculars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005802010', 'Reflecting telescopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005802020', 'Astronomical refracting telescopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005802090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9005900000', 'Parts and accessories (including\nmountings)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006301000', 'For subaqueous photography', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006302000', 'Air survey cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006303000', 'For medical or surgical examination\nof internal organs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006304000', 'Comparison cameras for forensic and\ncriminological purposes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006401000', 'Instant polaroid cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006402000', 'Instant sticker cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006511000', 'Photographic cameras for special use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006519000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006521000', 'Photographic cameras for special use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006529000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006531000', 'Photographic cameras for special use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006539010', 'Single use/disposable cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006539090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006591000', 'Photographic cameras for special use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006610000', 'Discharge lamp("electronic")\nflashlight apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006691000', 'Flashbulbs, flashcubes and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006910000', 'For cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9006990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9007100000', 'Cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9007201000', 'For film of less than 20 ㎜ width', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9007209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9007910000', 'For cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9007920000', 'For projectors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9008501000', 'Microfilm, microfiche or other\nmicroform readers, whether or not\ncapable of producing copies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9008502000', 'Other image projectors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9008503000', 'Photographic(other than\ncinematographic) enlargers and\nreducers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9008900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010101000', 'For photo-engraving', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010102000', 'For microfilm', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010109010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010501000', 'Developing apparatus for\nsemiconductor manufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010600000', 'Projection screens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010901010', 'Of the apparatus of subheading\n9010.50.1000', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010902000', 'Of articles of subheadings 9010.50\nand 9010.60,excluding those for the\npurpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9010909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011101000', 'Fitted with equipment specifically\ndesigned for the handling and\ntransport of semiconductor wafers or\nreticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011201010', 'Fitted with equipment specifically\ndesigned for the handling and\ntransport of semiconductor wafers or\nreticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011801000', 'Polarising microscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011802000', 'Metallurgical microscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011803000', 'Phase contrast and interference\nmicroscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011804000', 'Biological microscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011901000', 'Of subheadings 9011.10.1000,\n9011.20.1010', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9011909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9012101010', 'Electron beam microscopes, fitted\nwith equipment specifically designed\nfor the handling and transport of\nsemiconductor wafers or reticles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9012101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9012102000', 'Diffraction apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9012901000', 'Of subheading 9012.10.1010', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9012909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013101000', 'Telescopes designed to form parts of\nmachines, appliances, instruments or\napparatus of this Chapter or Section\nXVI', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013200000', 'Lasers, other than laser diodes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801120', 'For electronic calculators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801130', 'For televisions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801140', 'For monitor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801920', 'For electronic calculators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801930', 'For televisions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013801990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013802000', 'Magnifiers, loupes, thread counters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013803000', 'Door viewers (door eyes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013901000', 'Of subheading 9013.80.1120,\n9013.80.1920', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013902000', 'Of telescopic sights for fitting to\narms or for periscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9013909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014101010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014102010', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014102090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014200000', 'Instruments and appliances for\naeronautical or space navigation\n(other than compasses)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014800000', 'Other instruments and appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014901000', 'For aircrafts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9014909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015100000', 'Rangefinders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015200000', 'Theodolites and tachymeters\n(tacheometers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015300000', 'Levels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015400000', 'Photogrammetrical surveying\ninstruments and appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015801000', 'For use in the field.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015802000', 'For hydrographic use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015803000', 'For oceanographic use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015804000', 'For hydrological use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015805000', 'For meteorological use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9015900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9016001000', 'Direct reading balances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9016002000', 'Electronic balances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9016008000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9016009000', 'Parts or accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017101000', 'Plotters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017201010', 'Plotters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017202010', 'Plotters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017202090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017203000', 'Mathematical calculating\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017301000', 'Micrometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017302000', 'Dialgauges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017303000', 'Vernier callipers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017801000', 'Divided scales, measuring rod and\ntapes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017809010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017809090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017901000', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017909010', 'PCA(printed circuit assemblies) of\nplotters, which consist of one or\nmore printed circuits of heading\n85.34', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017909020', 'Flat panel displays for plotters\n(including LCD, EL(electro\nluminescence), plasma and other\ntechnologies)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9017909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018111000', 'Electro-cardiographs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018119000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018121000', 'Ultrasonic scanning apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018129000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018131000', 'Magnetic resonance imaging', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'apparatus', '', ''], ['9018139000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018140000', 'Scintigraphic apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018191000', 'Electro-encephalographs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018192000', 'Audiometers and similar apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018194000', 'Electro-tonographs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018197000', 'Patient monitoring system', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018198000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018199000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018201000', 'Ultra-violet or infra-red ray\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018209000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018310000', 'Syringes, with or without needles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018321000', 'Needles for injections', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018322000', 'Needles for sutures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018329000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018391000', 'Blood transfusion set or intravenous\nset', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018392000', 'Catheters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018398000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018399000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018411000', 'Dental drill engines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018419000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018491000', 'Dental burs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018492000', 'Dental units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018493000', 'Scalers for treating tartar', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018498000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018499000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018501010', 'Laser operated instrument', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018501090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018509000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018901000', 'Pregnancy diagnostic apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018902010', 'Laser operated instrument', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018903000', 'Gynaecological or obstetrical\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018904000', 'Endoscopes (gastroscopes,\nperitoneoscopes, cystoscopes and the\nlike)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018905000', 'Artificial kidney apparatus, including\ndialyzers for artificial kidney\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018906000', 'Electrical nerve stimulation\n(T.E.N.S)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018907000', 'Veterinary instrument and appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018908010', 'Laser operated instrument', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018908090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018909080', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9018909090', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019101000', 'Mechano-therapy appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019102000', 'Massage apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019103000', 'Psychological aptitude-testing\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019109000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019201000', 'Ozone therapy apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019202000', 'Oxygen therapy apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019203000', 'Aerosol therapy apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019204000', 'Artificial respiration apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019208000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9019209000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9020001000', 'Gas masks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9020008000', 'Other breathing appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9020009000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021100000', 'Orthopaedic or fracture appliances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021210000', 'Artificial teeth', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021310000', 'Artificial joints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021390000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021400000', 'Hearing aids, excluding parts and\naccessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021500000', 'Pacemakers for stimulating heart\nmuscles, excluding parts and\naccessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021901000', 'Screws, staples, pins or the like\nwhich are inserted inside the human\nbody', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021908000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9021909000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022120000', 'Computed tomography apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022130000', 'Other, for dental uses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022141020', 'Angiography units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022141030', 'Bone densimeter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022141090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022142000', 'For veterinary use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022191000', 'For physical or chemical testing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022192000', 'For industrial use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022211010', 'Gamma cameras', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022211020', 'Linear accelerators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022211030', 'Cobalt 60 therapy units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022211090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022212000', 'For veterinary use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022291000', 'For physical or chemical testing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022292000', 'For industrial use', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022300000', 'X-ray tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022901010', 'X-ray generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022901020', 'X-ray screens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022901030', 'X-ray high tension generators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022909010', 'Of apparatus based on the use of X-\nrays', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9022909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9023001000', 'Models of human or animal\nanatomies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9023009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024101000', 'Hardness testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024102000', 'Tensile testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024103000', 'Compression testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024104000', 'Fatigue testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024105000', 'Universal type testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024106000', 'Machines and appliances for testing\nadhesive strength or shear force of\nball or wire of printed circuits board,\nsemiconductor device and electronic\nintegrated circuit', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024801010', 'Testing machines to detect changes\nin the dimensions of textile', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024801020', 'Abrasion testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024801090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024809010', 'Elasticity meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024809020', 'Plastometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024809090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024901000', 'Sensor (devices sensing a specific\nquantity of change, whether or not\ncombined with equipment which\nconvert measured signal into\nelectrical signal)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9024909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025111000', 'Clinical or veterinary thermometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025191000', 'Thermometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025192010', 'Optical pyrometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025192090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025801000', 'Hydrometers and similar floating\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025802000', 'Barometers, not combined with other\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025803010', 'Psychrometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025803090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9025900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026101000', 'Flow meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026102000', 'Level gauges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026201110', 'Liquid type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026201120', 'Metallic type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026201190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026201900', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026801000', 'Heat meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026802000', 'Anemometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9026900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027100000', 'Gas or smoke analysis apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027200000', 'Chromatographs and electrophoresis\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027301000', 'Spectrometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027302000', 'Spectrophotometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027303000', 'Spectrograph', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027501000', 'Polarimeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027502000', 'Refractometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027503000', 'Colorimeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027504000', 'Luxmeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027801000', 'For physical or chemical analysis', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802010', 'pH meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802020', 'Calori meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802030', 'Visco meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802040', 'Expansion meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802050', 'Exposure meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027802090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027901000', 'Microtomes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027909010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027909091', 'For gas or smoke analysis apparatus\nand microtomes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9027909099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028101010', 'Of digital type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028102000', 'Calibrating meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028201010', 'Of digital type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028202000', 'Calibrating meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028301010', 'Not less than 50 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028301020', 'Less than 50 A', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028302000', 'Calibrating meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9028900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029101000', 'Revolution counters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029102000', 'Production counters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029103000', 'Taximeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029104000', 'Mileometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029105000', 'Counters for indicating the working\nhours of machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029201010', 'Chronometric system', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029202000', 'Stroboscopes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9029900000', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030100000', 'Instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or detecting ionising\nradiations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030201010', 'Of cathode-ray', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030202000', 'Oscillographs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030310000', 'Multimeters without a recording\ndevice', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030320000', 'Multimeters with a recording device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030331000', 'Voltmeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030332000', 'Ammeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030333000', 'Circuit testers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030334000', 'Resistance meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030335000', 'Galvanometer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030336000', 'Frequency measuring apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030339000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030391000', 'Voltmeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030392000', 'Ammeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030393000', 'Circuit testers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030394000', 'Resistance meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030395000', 'Galvanometer', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030396000', 'Frequency measuring apparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030401000', 'Crosstalk meter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030402000', 'Gain measuring instruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030403000', 'Distortion factor meters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030404000', 'Psophometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030820000', 'For measuring or checking\nsemiconductor wafers or devices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030840000', 'Other, with a recording device', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030890000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030901000', 'Of subheading 9030.82', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9030909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031100000', 'Machines for balancing mechanical\nparts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031200000', 'Test benches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031411000', 'Focimeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031412000', 'For measuring surface particulate\ncontamination on semiconductor\nwafers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031419000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031491000', 'Optical surface testers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031492000', 'Optical goniometers or angle gauges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031493000', 'Focimeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031494010', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031494090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031499000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031801000', 'Ultrasonic fish finders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031802000', 'Load-cells', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809010', 'Equipment for testing the\ncharacteristics of internal combustion\nengines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809020', 'Gear testing machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809030', 'Planimeters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809040', 'Spherometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809050', 'Apparatus for checking textile\nmaterials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809060', 'Ultra-sonic thickness measuring\ninstruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809070', 'Instruments for detecting faults,\ncracks or other defects', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809080', 'Dynamometers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809091', 'For the purpose of semiconductor\nmanufacturing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031809099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031901010', 'Of subheadings 9031.41', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031901090', 'Of other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9031909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032101010', 'For refrigerators', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032101020', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032102000', 'Of fixed type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032200000', 'Manostats', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032811010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032811090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032812010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032812091', 'Of machines and mechanical\nappliances for making semiconductor\ndevices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032812099', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032819010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032819090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032891010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032891090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032892010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032892090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032893010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032893090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032899010', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032899090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032901000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9032909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9033000000', 'Parts and accessories (not specified\nor included elsewhere in this\nChapter) for machines, appliances,\ninstruments or apparatus of Chapter\n90.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101110000', 'With mechanical display only', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101191000', 'With opto-electronic display only', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101210000', 'With automatic winding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101910000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9101990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102111000', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102112000', 'With dials, bands or similar of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102119010', 'Battery or accumulator operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102119090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102121000', 'Battery or accumulator operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102129010', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102129020', 'With dials, bands or similar of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102129090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102191000', 'Battery or accumulator operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102199010', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102199020', 'With dials, bands or similar of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'precious metal', '', ''], ['9102199090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102211000', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102212000', 'With dials, bands or similar of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102219000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102291000', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102292000', 'With dials bands or similar of\nprecious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102911000', 'Stop-watches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102912000', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102919010', 'Battery or accumulator powered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102919090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102991000', 'Stop-watches', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102992000', 'For the blind', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9102999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9103100000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9103900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9104001000', 'For vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9104002000', 'For aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9104004000', 'For vessels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9104009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105110000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105210000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105910000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9105990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9106100000', 'Time-registers; time-recorders', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9106902000', 'Timers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9106909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9107001000', 'With synchronous motor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9107009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9108110000', 'With mechanical display only or\nwith a device to which a mechanical\ndisplay can be incorporated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9108120000', 'With opto-electronic display only', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9108190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9108200000', 'With automatic winding', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9108900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9109100000', 'Electrically operated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9109900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110111000', 'Battery or accumulator powered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110121000', 'Battery or accumulator powered.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110129000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110190000', 'Rough movements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110901000', 'Battery or accumulator powered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9110909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9111100000', 'Cases of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9111200000', 'Cases of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver- plated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9111800000', 'Other cases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9111901000', 'Of precious metal or metal clad with\nprecious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9111909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9112200000', 'Cases', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9112900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9113100000', 'Of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9113200000', 'Of base metal, whether or not gold-\nor silver- plated', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9113901000', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9113902000', 'Of leather or composition leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9113909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9114100000', 'Springs, including hair-springs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9114300000', 'Dials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9114400000', 'Plates and bridges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9114900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9201100000', 'Upright pianos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9201200000', 'Grand pianos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9201901000', 'Harpsichords', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9201909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202101000', 'Violins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202102000', 'Violoncellos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202901000', 'Guitars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202902000', 'Harps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202903000', 'Mandolines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202904000', 'Banjo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9202909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205101000', 'Trumpets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205102000', 'Trombones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205901010', 'Flutes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205901020', 'Clarinets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205901030', 'Saxophones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205901040', 'Recorder', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205902010', 'Pipe organs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205903010', 'Accordions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205903020', 'Melodicas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205904000', 'Mouth organs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9205909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206001000', 'Drums', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206002000', 'Xylophones', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206003000', 'Cymbals', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206004000', 'Castanets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206005000', 'Maracas', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206006000', 'Tambourine', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9206009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207101000', 'Organs (including synthesizers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207103000', 'Pianos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207901000', 'Guitars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207902000', 'Accordions', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9207909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208100000', 'Musical boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208901000', 'Fairground organs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208902000', 'Mechanical street organs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208903000', 'Mechanical singing birds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208904000', 'Musical saws', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9208909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209301000', 'Of metal wire', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209910000', 'Parts and accessories for pianos', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209920000', 'Parts and accessories for the musical\ninstruments of heading 92.02', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209940000', 'Parts and accessories for the musical\ninstruments of heading 92.07', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209991000', 'For musical movements', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209992000', 'Metronomes, tuning forks and pitch\npipes of all kinds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209993000', 'Mechanisms for musical boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9209999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301101000', 'Self-propelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301200000', 'Rocket launchers; flame-throwers;\ngrenade launchers; torpedo tubes and\nsimilar projectors', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301901000', 'Fully automatic shotguns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301902010', 'Bolt action', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301902020', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301902030', 'Fully automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301902090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301903000', 'Machine-guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301904010', 'Fully automatic pistols', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301904090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9301909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302001010', 'Revolvers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302001021', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302001029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302001030', 'Pistols, multiple barrel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302009010', 'Revolvers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302009021', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302009029', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302009030', 'Pistols, multiple barrel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9302009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303100000', 'Muzzle-loading firearms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303201011', 'Pump-action', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303201012', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303201019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303201020', 'Shotguns, multiple barrel, including\ncombination guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303201090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303209011', 'Pump-action', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303209012', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303209019', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303209020', 'Shotguns, multiple barrel, including\ncombination guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303301010', 'Single-shot', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303301020', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303301090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303309010', 'Single-shot', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303309020', 'Semi-automatic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303309090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9303900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9304001000', 'Air guns', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9304009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101010', 'Firing mechanisms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101020', 'Frames and receivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101030', 'Barrels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101040', 'Pistons, locking lugs and gas buffers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101050', 'Magazines and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101060', 'Silencers (sound moderators) and\nparts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101070', 'Butts, grips and plates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101080', 'Slides (for pistols) and cylinders (for\nrevolvers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109010', 'Firing mechanisms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109020', 'Frames and receivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109030', 'Barrels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109040', 'Pistons, locking lugs and gas buffers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109050', 'Magazines and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109060', 'Silencers (sound moderators) and\nparts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109070', 'Butts, grips and plates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109080', 'Slides(for pistols) and cylinders (for\nrevolvers)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305201000', 'Shotgun barrels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305209010', 'Rifle barrels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305209020', 'Magazines and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305209090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911010', 'Firing mechanisms', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911020', 'Frames and receivers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911030', 'Barrels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911040', 'Pistons, locking lugs and gas buffers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911050', 'Magazines and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911060', 'Silencers (sound moderators) and\nparts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911070', 'Flash eliminators and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911080', 'Breeches, bolts (gunlocks) and bolt\ncarriers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305911090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9305990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9306210000', 'Cartridges', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9306290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9306301000', 'Cartridges for riveting or similar\ntools or for captive-bolt humane\nkillers and parts thereof', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9306309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9306900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9307000000', 'Swords, cutlasses, bayonets, lances\nand similar arms and parts thereof\nand scabbards and sheaths therefor.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401100000', 'Seats of a kind used for aircraft', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401200000', 'Seats of a kind used for motor\nvehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401303000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401401000', 'Of cane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401402000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401520000', 'Of bamboo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401530000', 'Of rattan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401591000', 'Of cane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401611000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401619000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401691000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401711000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401719000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401791000', 'Covered with leather', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401799000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401801000', 'Of stone', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401809000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401901000', 'Of wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401902000', 'Of metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9401909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402101010', "Dentists' chairs", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402101090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402109010', "Barbers or beauty shop's chairs", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402109090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402901000', 'Operating tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402902000', 'Gynecologic tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402903000', 'Delivery tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402908000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9402909000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403100000', 'Metal furniture of a kind used in\noffices', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403201000', 'Beds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403301000', 'Desks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403401000', 'Dinner tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403501000', 'Beds', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403601010', 'Stationery chests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403601020', 'Dressing tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403601030', 'Dressers (wardrobes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403601090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403609010', 'Stationery chests', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403609020', 'Dressing tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403609030', 'Dressers (wardrobes)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403609090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403701000', "Baby's step training", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403709000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403820000', 'Of bamboo', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403830000', 'Of rattan', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403890000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9403900000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9404100000', 'Mattress supports', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9404210000', 'Of cellular rubber or plastics,\nwhether or not covered', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9404290000', 'Of other materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9404300000', 'Sleeping bags', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9404900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405101000', 'Of filament lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405102000', 'Of fluorescent lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405103000', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405201000', 'Of filament lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405202000', 'Of fluorescent lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405203000', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405301000', 'Of filament lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405302000', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405401000', 'Of anti-explosive type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405402000', 'Of flood type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405403000', 'Of street type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405500000', 'Non-electrical lamps and lighting\nfittings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405601000', 'Of neon tubes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405602000', 'Of filament lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405603000', 'Of fluorescent lamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405604000', 'Of light-emitting diode (LED)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405609000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405911000', 'Of chandeliers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405919000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405921000', 'Of chandeliers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405929000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405991000', 'Of chandeliers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9405999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9406100000', 'Of wood', '5.0%', 'EX'], ['9406901000', 'Of plastic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9406902000', 'Of iron or steel', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9406903000', 'Of aluminium', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9406909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001100', "Children's tricycles", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001200', 'Scooters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001300', 'Pedal cars', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001400', "Dolls' carriages", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001800', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503001900', 'Parts and accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002110', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002120', 'Of rubbers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002130', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002140', 'Of ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002150', 'Of glasses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002160', 'Of wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002190', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002910', 'Garments and accessories therefor,\nfootwear and headgear', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503002990', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003110', 'Electric trains', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003190', 'Accessories', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003200', 'Reduced-size ("scale") model\nassembly kits, whether or not\nworking models, excluding those of\nsubheading 9503.00.31', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003300', 'Other construction sets and\nconstructional toys', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003411', 'Of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003419', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003491', 'Of textile material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003492', 'Of rubbers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003493', 'Of plastics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003494', 'Of metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003495', 'Of ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003496', 'Of glasses', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003497', 'Of wood', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003499', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003500', 'Toy musical instruments and\napparatus', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003600', 'Puzzles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003700', 'Other toys, put up in sets or outfits', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003800', 'Other toys and models, incorporating\na motor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003911', 'Balloons, toy balls, kites and the like', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003919', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9503003990', 'Parts and accessories (excluding\nthose of subheading 9503.00.3190)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504201000', 'Billiard tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504202000', 'Billiard balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504301000', 'games of chance that immediately\nreturn a monetary award', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504400000', 'Playing cards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504501000', 'Video games of a kind used with a\ntelevision receiver', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504509000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504901020', 'Pin setters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504901030', 'Bowling balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504901040', 'Lane', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504901050', 'Bowling pins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504902000', 'Electronic games', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504903000', 'Other articles and equipment', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504909020', 'Of electronic games', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9504909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9505100000', 'Articles for Christmas festivities', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9505900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506110000', 'Skis', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506120000', 'Ski-fastenings (ski-bindings)', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506190000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506210000', 'Sailboards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506310000', 'Clubs, complete', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506320000', 'Balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506391000', 'Parts of clubs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506399000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506401000', 'Table-tennis tables', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506402000', 'Table-tennis rackets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506403000', 'Table-tennis balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506409000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506510000', 'Lawn-tennis rackets, whether or not\nstrung', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506591000', 'Badminton rackets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506599000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506610000', 'Lawn-tennis balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506621000', 'Soccer balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506622000', 'Basket balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506623000', 'Volley balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506624000', 'Hand balls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506625000', 'American footballs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506629000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506691000', 'Badminton shuttlecock', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506692000', 'Baseballs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506699000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506700000', 'Ice skates and roller skates, including\nskating boots with skates attached', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506910000', 'Articles and equipment for general\nphysical exercise, gymnastics or\nathletics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9506990000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507101000', 'Of glass fibre', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507102000', 'Of carbon', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507200000', 'Fish-hooks, whether or not snelled', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507300000', 'Fishing reels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507901000', 'Fish landing nets and other fishing\ntackles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9507909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9508100000', 'Travelling circuses and travelling', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['', 'menageries', '', ''], ['9508900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601100000', 'Worked ivory and articles of ivory', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601901010', 'A nucleus for cultivating pearl', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601901090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601902000', 'Of horn', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601909010', 'A nucleus for cultivating pearl', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9601909090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9602001000', 'Gelatin capsules', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9602009010', 'Worked vegetable carving material\n(for example, corozo) and articles of\nvegetable carving material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9602009020', 'Worked jet (and mineral substitutes\nfor jet), amber, meerschaum,\nagglomerated amber and\nagglomerated meerschaum, and\narticles of those substances', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9602009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603100000', 'Brooms and brushes, consisting of\ntwigs or other vegetable materials\nbound together, with or without\nhandles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603210000', 'Tooth brushes, including dental-plate\nbrushes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603290000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603300000', "Artists' brushes, writing brushes and\nsimilar brushes for the application of\ncosmetics", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603400000', 'Paint, distemper, varnish or similar\nbrushes (other than brushes of\nsubheading 9603.30); paint pads and\nrollers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603500000', 'Other brushes constituting parts of\nmachines, appliances or vehicles', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9603900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9604000000', 'Hand sieves and hand riddles.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9605000000', 'Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing\nor shoe or clothes cleaning.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606100000', 'Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and\npress-studs and parts therefor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606210000', 'Of plastics, not covered with textile\nmaterial', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606220000', 'Of base metal, not covered with\ntextile material', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606291000', 'Of shell-fish shell', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606299000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9606300000', 'Button moulds and other parts of\nbuttons; button blanks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607110000', 'Fitted with chain scoops of base\nmetal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607191000', 'Of plastic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607201000', 'Of base metal', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607202000', 'Of plastic', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9607209000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608100000', 'Ball point pens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608200000', 'Felt tipped and other porous-tipped\npens and markers', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608301000', 'Fountainpens', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608309000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608401000', 'Propelling Pencils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608402010', 'Of mechanical type', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608402090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608500000', 'Sets of articles from two or more of\nthe foregoing subheadings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608600000', 'Refills for ball point pens,\ncomprising the ball point and ink-\nreservoir', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608911000', 'Pen nibs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608912000', 'Nib points', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608991000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9608999000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609101000', 'Pencils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609102000', 'Color pencils', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609103000', 'Crayons', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609200000', 'Pencil leads, black or coloured', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609901000', 'Crayons and oil pastels.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609902000', 'Pastels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609903010', 'For writing', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609903090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9609909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9610001000', 'Slates', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9610002000', 'Black boards', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9610009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9611001000', 'Stamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9611002000', 'Hand printing sets', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9611009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9612101000', 'For typewriter', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9612102000', 'For EDPS machines', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9612109000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9612200000', 'Ink-pads', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9613100000', 'Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, non-\nrefillable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9613200000', 'Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, refillable', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9613800000', 'Other lighters', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9613901000', 'Piezo-electric ignition units', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9613909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9614001000', 'Pipes and pipe bowls', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9614009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615111000', 'Combs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615119000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615191000', 'Combs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615199000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615901000', 'Hair-pins', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9615909000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9616100000', 'Scent sprays and similar toilet\nsprays, and mounts and heads\ntherefor', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9616200000', 'Powder-puffs and pads for the\napplication of cosmetics or toilet\npreparations', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9617001000', 'Vacuum flasks', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9617002000', 'Vacuum lunch-boxes', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9617008000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9617009000', 'Parts', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9618001000', "Tailors' dummies", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9618002000', 'Automata', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9618009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619001010', 'Napkins and napkin liners for babies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619001090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619002000', 'Of wadding of textile materials', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619003010', 'Of subheadings 6108.21, 6108.22,\n6108.29, 6111.20, 6111.30, 6111.90,\n6209.20, 6209.30, 6209.90 or\n6210.50', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619003020', 'Of heading 6113, of subheadings\n6208.91, 6208.92 or 6208.99', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619004000', 'Other made up textile articles, other\nthan goods of notes 2 to chapter 63', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619009010', 'Napkins and napkin liners for babies', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9619009090', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9620000000', 'Monopods, bipods, tripods and\nsimilar articles.', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9701101000', 'Paintings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9701102000', 'Drawings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9701103000', 'Pastels', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9701900000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9702001000', 'Engravings', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9702002000', 'Prints', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9702003000', 'Lithographs', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9703001000', 'Sculptures', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9703002000', 'Statuary', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9704001000', 'Postage stamps', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9704009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9705000000', "Collections and collectors' pieces of\nzoological, botanical, mineralogical,\nanatomical, historical,\narchaeological, palaeontological,\nethnographic or numismatic interest.", '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9706001000', 'Ceramics', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9706002000', 'Musical instruments', '0.0%', 'E0'], ['9706009000', 'Other', '0.0%', 'E0']]
Notes for Schedule of Indonesia  1. Relation to the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of Indonesia (hereinafter referred to as “HSI”).  The provisions of this Schedule are generally expressed in terms of the HSI, and the interpretation of the provisions of this Schedule shall be governed by the General Notes, Section Notes, and Chapter Notes of the HSI.  To the extent that provisions of this Schedule are identical to the corresponding provisions of the HSI, the provisions of this Schedule shall have the same meaning as the corresponding provisions of the HSI.    2. Staging. In addition to the staging categories listed in paragraph 1 of Annex 2-A, this Schedule contains staging category EX*:    (a) As from the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the customs duty shall not be applied to originating goods classified under the tariff lines indicated with “EX*” where the originating goods are imported and used directly by the approved manufacturers, approved steel service centers and approved supporting industries in such sectors as:    (i) Automotive, motorcycle and components thereof;  (ii) Electrical and electronics;  (iii) Construction machineries and heavy equipment; and  (iv) Petroleum, gas and electric power,  provided that goods which satisfy the requirements of a user of such originating goods in respect of specification, grade, quantity and time of delivery are not produced in Indonesia and, with respect to subparagraph (iv), that such originating goods shall be used ultimately in a project with respect to which a substantial share is held by investors of Republic of Korea or Indonesia.    Note: Subparagraph (iv) and its related condition shall be subject to review by the Parties in year four.    (b) Upon request of either Party, the Parties shall consult on any matters related to this note. Either Party may invite 
representatives from users, producers, and other related entities to the consultations.    
Schedule of Indonesia  
[['NO', 'HS CODE', 'DESCRIPTION', 'BASE\nRATE', 'STAGING\nCATEGORY'], ['', '01.01', 'Live horses, asses, mules and hinnies.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Horses :', '', ''], ['1', '0101.21.00', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['2', '0101.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0101.30', '- Asses :', '', ''], ['3', '0101.30.10', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['4', '0101.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5', '0101.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '01.02', 'Live bovine animals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cattle :', '', ''], ['6', '0102.21.00', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0102.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Male cattle :', '', ''], ['7', '0102.29.11', '- - - - Oxen', '0%', 'E0'], ['8', '0102.29.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['9', '0102.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '', '- Buffalo :', '', ''], ['10', '0102.31.00', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['11', '0102.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0102.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['12', '0102.90.10', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['13', '0102.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '01.03', 'Live swine.', '', ''], ['14', '0103.10.00', '- Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['15', '0103.91.00', '- - Weighing less than 50 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['16', '0103.92.00', '- - Weighing 50 kg or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '01.04', 'Live sheep and goats.', '', ''], ['', '0104.10', '- Sheep :', '', ''], ['17', '0104.10.10', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['18', '0104.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0104.20', '- Goats :', '', ''], ['19', '0104.20.10', '- - Pure-bred breeding animals', '0%', 'E0'], ['20', '0104.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '01.05', 'Live poultry, that is to say, fowls of the\nspecies Gallus domesticus, ducks, geese,\nturkeys and guinea fowls.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Weighing not more than 185 g :', '', ''], ['', '0105.11', '- - Fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus :', '', ''], ['21', '0105.11.10', '- - - Breeding fowls', '0%', 'E0'], ['22', '0105.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0105.12', '- - Turkeys :', '', ''], ['23', '0105.12.10', '- - - Breeding turkeys', '0%', 'E0'], ['24', '0105.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0105.13', '- - Ducks :', '', ''], ['25', '0105.13.10', '- - - Breeding ducklings', '0%', 'E0'], ['26', '0105.13.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0105.14', '- - Geese :', '', ''], ['27', '0105.14.10', '- - - Breeding goslings', '0%', 'E0'], ['28', '0105.14.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0105.15', '- - Guinea fowls :', '', ''], ['29', '0105.15.10', '- - - Breeding guinea fowls', '0%', 'E0'], ['30', '0105.15.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '0105.94', '- - Fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus :', '', ''], ['31', '0105.94.10', '- - - Breeding fowls, other than fighting\ncocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Fighting cocks :', '', ''], ['32', '0105.94.41', '- - - - Weighing not more than 2 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['33', '0105.94.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['34', '0105.94.91', '- - - - Weighing not more than 2 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['35', '0105.94.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0105.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['36', '0105.99.10', '- - - Breeding ducks', '0%', 'E0'], ['37', '0105.99.20', '- - - Other ducks', '0%', 'E0'], ['38', '0105.99.30', '- - - Breeding geese, turkeys and guinea\nfowls', '0%', 'E0'], ['39', '0105.99.40', '- - - Other geese, turkeys and guinea\nfowls', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '01.06', 'Other live animals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Mammals :', '', ''], ['40', '0106.11.00', '- - Primates', '0%', 'E0'], ['41', '0106.12.00', '- - Whales, dolphins and porpoises\n(mammals of the order Cetacea);\nmanatees and dugongs (mammals of the\norder Sirenia); seals, sea lions and\nwalruses (mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia)', '0%', 'E0'], ['42', '0106.13.00', '- - Camels and other camelids\n(Camelidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['43', '0106.14.00', '- - Rabbits and hares', '0%', 'E0'], ['44', '0106.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['45', '0106.20.00', '- Reptiles (including snakes and turtles)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Birds :', '', ''], ['46', '0106.31.00', '- - Birds of prey', '0%', 'E0'], ['47', '0106.32.00', '- - Psittaciformes (including parrots,\nparakeets, macaws and cockatoos)', '0%', 'E0'], ['48', '0106.33.00', '- - Ostriches; emus (Dromaius\nnovaehollandiae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['49', '0106.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Insects :', '', ''], ['50', '0106.41.00', '- - Bees', '0%', 'E0'], ['51', '0106.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['52', '0106.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '02.01', 'Meat of bovine animals, fresh or\nchilled.', '', ''], ['53', '0201.10.00', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses', '5%', 'E0'], ['54', '0201.20.00', '- Other cuts with bone in', '5%', 'E0'], ['55', '0201.30.00', '- Boneless', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '02.02', 'Meat of bovine animals, frozen.', '', ''], ['56', '0202.10.00', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses', '5%', 'E15'], ['57', '0202.20.00', '- Other cuts with bone in', '5%', 'E15'], ['58', '0202.30.00', '- Boneless', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '02.03', 'Meat of swine, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['59', '0203.11.00', '- - Carcasses and half-carcasses', '5%', 'E0'], ['60', '0203.12.00', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with\nbone in', '5%', 'E0'], ['61', '0203.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Frozen :', '', ''], ['62', '0203.21.00', '- - Carcasses and half-carcasses', '5%', 'E0'], ['63', '0203.22.00', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with\nbone in', '5%', 'E0'], ['64', '0203.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '02.04', 'Meat of sheep or goats, fresh, chilled or\nfrozen.', '', ''], ['65', '0204.10.00', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses of lamb,\nfresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other meat of sheep, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['66', '0204.21.00', '- - Carcasses and half-carcasses', '0%', 'E0'], ['67', '0204.22.00', '- - Other cuts with bone in', '0%', 'E0'], ['68', '0204.23.00', '- - Boneless', '0%', 'E0'], ['69', '0204.30.00', '- Carcasses and half-carcasses of lamb,\nfrozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other meat of sheep, frozen :', '', ''], ['70', '0204.41.00', '- - Carcasses and half-carcasses', '0%', 'E0'], ['71', '0204.42.00', '- - Other cuts with bone in', '0%', 'E0'], ['72', '0204.43.00', '- - Boneless', '0%', 'E0'], ['73', '0204.50.00', '- Meat of goats', '0%', 'E0'], ['74', '0205.00.00', 'Meat of horses, asses, mules or hinnies,\nfresh, chilled or frozen.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '02.06', 'Edible offal of bovine animals, swine,\nsheep, goats, horses, asses, mules or\nhinnies, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', ''], ['75', '0206.10.00', '- Of bovine animals, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of bovine animals, frozen :', '', ''], ['76', '0206.21.00', '- - Tongues', '5%', 'E15'], ['77', '0206.22.00', '- - Livers', '5%', 'E15'], ['78', '0206.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['79', '0206.30.00', '- Of swine, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of swine, frozen :', '', ''], ['80', '0206.41.00', '- - Livers', '5%', 'E0'], ['81', '0206.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['82', '0206.80.00', '- Other, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['83', '0206.90.00', '- Other, frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '02.07', 'Meat and edible offal, of the poultry of\nheading 01.05, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus :', '', ''], ['84', '0207.11.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['85', '0207.12.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['86', '0207.13.00', '- - Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0207.14', '- - Cuts and offal, frozen :', '', ''], ['87', '0207.14.10', '- - - Wings', '5%', 'EX'], ['88', '0207.14.20', '- - - Thighs', '5%', 'EX'], ['89', '0207.14.30', '- - - Livers', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['90', '0207.14.91', '- - - - Mechanically deboned or separated\nmeat', '5%', 'EX'], ['91', '0207.14.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Of turkeys :', '', ''], ['92', '0207.24.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['93', '0207.25.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['94', '0207.26.00', '- - Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0207.27', '- - Cuts and offal, frozen :', '', ''], ['95', '0207.27.10', '- - - Livers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['96', '0207.27.91', '- - - - Mechanically deboned or separated\nmeat', '0%', 'E0'], ['97', '0207.27.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of ducks :', '', ''], ['98', '0207.41.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['99', '0207.42.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['100', '0207.43.00', '- - Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['101', '0207.44.00', '- - Other, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['102', '0207.45.00', '- - Other, frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of geese :', '', ''], ['103', '0207.51.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['104', '0207.52.00', '- - Not cut in pieces, frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['105', '0207.53.00', '- - Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['106', '0207.54.00', '- - Other, fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['107', '0207.55.00', '- - Other, frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['108', '0207.60.00', '- Of guinea fowls', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '02.08', 'Other meat and edible meat offal,\nfresh, chilled or frozen.', '', ''], ['109', '0208.10.00', '- Of rabbits or hares', '0%', 'E0'], ['110', '0208.30.00', '- Of primates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0208.40', '- Of whales, dolphins and porpoises\n(mammals of the order Cetacea); of\nmanatees and dugongs (mammals of the\norder Sirenia); of seals, sea lions and\nwalruses (mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia) :', '', ''], ['111', '0208.40.10', '- - Of whales, dolphins and porpoises\n(mammals of the order Cetacea); of\nmanatees and dugongs (mammals of the\norder Sirenia)', '0%', 'E0'], ['112', '0208.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['113', '0208.50.00', '- Of reptiles (including snakes and turtles)', '0%', 'E0'], ['114', '0208.60.00', '- Of camels and other camelids\n(Camelidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0208.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['115', '0208.90.10', "- - Frogs' legs", '0%', 'E0'], ['116', '0208.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '02.09', 'Pig fat, free of lean meat, and poultry\nfat, not rendered or otherwise\nextracted, fresh, chilled, frozen, salted,\nin brine, dried or smoked.', '', ''], ['117', '0209.10.00', '- Of pigs', '0%', 'E0'], ['118', '0209.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '02.10', 'Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in\nbrine, dried or smoked; edible flours\nand meals of meat or meat offal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Meat of swine :', '', ''], ['119', '0210.11.00', '- - Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with\nbone in', '5%', 'E0'], ['120', '0210.12.00', '- - Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0210.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['121', '0210.19.30', '- - - Bacon or boneless hams', '5%', 'E0'], ['122', '0210.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['123', '0210.20.00', '- Meat of bovine animals', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, including edible flours and meals\nof meat or meat offal :', '', ''], ['124', '0210.91.00', '- - Of primates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0210.92', '- - Of whales, dolphins and porpoises\n(mammals of the order Cetacea); of\nmanatees and dugongs (mammals of the\norder Sirenia); of seals, sea lions and\nwalruses (mammals of the suborder\nPinnipedia) :', '', ''], ['125', '0210.92.10', '- - - Of whales, dolphins and porpoises\n(mammals of the order Cetacea); of\nmanatees and dugongs (mammals of the\norder Sirenia)', '0%', 'E0'], ['126', '0210.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['127', '0210.93.00', '- - Of reptiles (including snakes and\nturtles)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0210.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['128', '0210.99.10', '- - - Freeze dried chicken dice', '0%', 'E0'], ['129', '0210.99.20', '- - - Dried pork skin', '5%', 'E0'], ['130', '0210.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '03.01', 'Live fish.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Ornamental fish :', '', ''], ['', '0301.11', '- - Freshwater :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fry :', '', ''], ['131', '0301.11.11', '- - - - Botia (Chromobotia macracanthus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['132', '0301.11.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['133', '0301.11.91', '- - - - Koi carp (Cyprinus carpio)', '0%', 'E0'], ['134', '0301.11.92', '- - - - Goldfish (Carassius auratus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['135', '0301.11.93', '- - - - Siamese fighting fish (Beta\nsplendens)', '5%', 'E0'], ['136', '0301.11.94', '- - - - Oscars (Astonotus ocellatus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['137', '0301.11.95', '- - - - Arowanas (Scleropages formosus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['138', '0301.11.96', '- - - - Arowanas Jardini (Scleropages\njardini)', '5%', 'E0'], ['139', '0301.11.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0301.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['140', '0301.19.10', '- - - Fry', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['141', '0301.19.91', '- - - - Banggai cardinal fish (Pterapogon\nkauderni)', '5%', 'E0'], ['142', '0301.19.92', '- - - - Napoleon wrasse (Cheilinus\nundulatus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['143', '0301.19.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other live fish :', '', ''], ['144', '0301.91.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['145', '0301.92.00', '- - Eels (Anguilla spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0301.93', '- - Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla,\nLabeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['146', '0301.93.10', '- - - Breeding, other than fry', '0%', 'E0'], ['147', '0301.93.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['148', '0301.94.00', '- - Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas\n(Thunnus thynnus, Thunnus orientalis)', '5%', 'E7'], ['149', '0301.95.00', '- - Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0301.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Milkfish and Grouper, fry :', '', ''], ['150', '0301.99.11', '- - - - Breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['151', '0301.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other fish fry :', '', ''], ['152', '0301.99.21', '- - - - Breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['153', '0301.99.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, freshwater fish :', '', ''], ['154', '0301.99.41', '- - - - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '10%', 'E0'], ['155', '0301.99.42', '- - - - Other carp, for breeding', '5%', 'E0'], ['156', '0301.99.49', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, marine fish :', '', ''], ['157', '0301.99.51', '- - - - Milkfish, breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['158', '0301.99.52', '- - - - Grouper', '10%', 'E0'], ['159', '0301.99.59', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['160', '0301.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '03.02', 'Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish\nfillets and other fish meat of heading\n03.04.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Salmonidae, excluding edible fish offal\nof subheadings 0302.91 to 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['161', '0302.11.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['162', '0302.13.00', '- - Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus\nmasou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['163', '0302.14.00', '- - Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0%', 'E0'], ['164', '0302.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae,\nCynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scophthalmidae\nand Citharidae), excluding edible fish\noffal of subheadings 0302.91 to 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['165', '0302.21.00', '- - Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides,\nHippoglossus hippoglossus, Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)', '5%', 'E15'], ['166', '0302.22.00', '- - Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', '5%', 'E0'], ['167', '0302.23.00', '- - Sole (Solea spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['168', '0302.24.00', '- - Turbots (Psetta maxima)', '5%', 'E0'], ['169', '0302.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack\nor stripe-bellied bonito (Euthynnus\n(Katsuwonus) pelamis), excluding edible\nfish offal of subheadings 0302.91 to\n0302.99 :', '', ''], ['170', '0302.31.00', '- - Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus\nalalunga)', '5%', 'SS'], ['171', '0302.32.00', '- - Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', '5%', 'SS'], ['172', '0302.33.00', '- - Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', '5%', 'SS'], ['173', '0302.34.00', '- - Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', '5%', 'SS'], ['174', '0302.35.00', '- - Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas\n(Thunnus thynnus, Thunnus orientalis)', '0%', 'E0'], ['175', '0302.36.00', '- - Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['176', '0302.39.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '', '- Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii), anchovies (Engraulis spp.),\nsardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops\nspp.), sardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling\nor sprats (Sprattus sprattus), mackerel\n(Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus), Indian\nmackerels (Rastrelliger spp.), seerfishes\n(Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse\nmackerel (Trachurus spp.), jacks,\ncrevalles (Caranx spp.), cobia\n(Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis\nsaira), scads (Decapterus spp.), capelin\n(Mallotus villosus), swordfish (Xiphias\ngladius), Kawakawa (Euthynnus affinis),\nbonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins, sailfishes,\nspearfish (Istiophoridae), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheadings 0302.91\nto 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['177', '0302.41.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['178', '0302.42.00', '- - Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['179', '0302.43.00', '- - Sardines (Sardina pilchardus,\nSardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella\nspp.), brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus)', '5%', 'SS'], ['180', '0302.44.00', '- - Mackerel (Scomber scombrus,\nScomber australasicus, Scomber\njaponicus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['181', '0302.45.00', '- - Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus\nspp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['182', '0302.46.00', '- - Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['183', '0302.47.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '5%', 'E0'], ['184', '0302.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, excluding edible fish\noffal of subheadings 0302.91 to 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['185', '0302.51.00', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '5%', 'E15'], ['186', '0302.52.00', '- - Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['187', '0302.53.00', '- - Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0%', 'E0'], ['188', '0302.54.00', '- - Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['189', '0302.55.00', '- - Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '0%', 'E0'], ['190', '0302.56.00', '- - Blue whitings (Micromesistius\npoutassou, Micromesistius australis)', '5%', 'E0'], ['191', '0302.59.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp, Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheadings 0302.91\nto 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['192', '0302.71.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '0302.72', '- - Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.) :', '', ''], ['193', '0302.72.10', '- - - Yellowtail catfish (Pangasius\npangasius)', '5%', 'E0'], ['194', '0302.72.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['195', '0302.73.00', '- - Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla,\nLabeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['196', '0302.74.00', '- - Eels (Anguilla spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['197', '0302.79.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other fish, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheadings 0302.91 to 0302.99 :', '', ''], ['198', '0302.81.00', '- - Dogfish and other sharks', '0%', 'E0'], ['199', '0302.82.00', '- - Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '5%', 'E0'], ['200', '0302.83.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['201', '0302.84.00', '- - Seabass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['202', '0302.85.00', '- - Seabream (Sparidae)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0302.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Marine fish :', '', ''], ['203', '0302.89.11', '- - - - Grouper', '10%', 'E10'], ['204', '0302.89.12', '- - - - Longfin mojarra (Pentaprion\nlongimanus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['205', '0302.89.13', '- - - - Bluntnose lizardfish\n(Trachinocephalus myops)', '5%', 'E0'], ['206', '0302.89.14', '- - - - Savalai hairtails (Lepturacanthus\nsavala), Belanger’s croakers (Johnius\nbelangerii), Reeve’s croakers (Chrysochir\naureus) and bigeye croakers (Pennahia\nanea)', '5%', 'E0'], ['207', '0302.89.16', '- - - - Torpedo scads (Megalaspis\ncordyla), spotted sicklefish (Drepane\npunctata) and great barracudas\n(Sphyraena barracuda)', '5%', 'E0'], ['208', '0302.89.17', '- - - - Black pomfrets (Parastromatus\nniger)', '5%', 'E0'], ['209', '0302.89.18', '- - - - Mangrove red snappers (Lutjanus', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'argentimaculatus)', '', ''], ['210', '0302.89.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['211', '0302.89.22', '- - - - Swamp barb (Puntius chola)', '5%', 'E0'], ['212', '0302.89.26', '- - - - Indian threadfins (Polynemus\nindicus) and silver grunts (pomadasys\nargenteus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['213', '0302.89.27', '- - - - Hilsa shad (Tenualosa ilisha)', '5%', 'E0'], ['214', '0302.89.28', '- - - - Wallago (Wallago attu) and giant\nriver-catfish (Sperata seenghala)', '5%', 'E0'], ['215', '0302.89.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Livers, roes, milt, fish fins, heads, tails,\nmaws and other edible fish offal :', '', ''], ['216', '0302.91.00', '- - Livers, roes and milt', '0%', 'E0'], ['217', '0302.92.00', '- - Shark fins', '0%', 'E0'], ['218', '0302.99.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'E20'], ['', '03.03', 'Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets and\nother fish meat of heading 03.04.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Salmonidae, excluding edible fish offal\nof subheadings 0303.91 to 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['219', '0303.11.00', '- - Sockeye salmon (red salmon)\n(Oncorhynchus nerka)', '0%', 'E0'], ['220', '0303.12.00', '- - Other Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\ngorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus\nmasou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['221', '0303.13.00', '- - Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0%', 'E0'], ['222', '0303.14.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['223', '0303.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheadings 0303.91\nto 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['224', '0303.23.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '10%', 'EX'], ['225', '0303.24.00', '- - Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '5%', 'E10'], ['226', '0303.25.00', '- - Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla,\nLabeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', '5%', 'E15'], ['227', '0303.26.00', '- - Eels (Anguilla spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['228', '0303.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae,\nCynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scophthalmidae\nand Citharidae), excluding edible fish\noffal of subheadings 0303.91 to 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['229', '0303.31.00', '- - Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides,\nHippoglossus hippoglossus, Hippoglossus\nstenolepis)', '5%', 'E10'], ['230', '0303.32.00', '- - Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', '5%', 'E0'], ['231', '0303.33.00', '- - Sole (Solea spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['232', '0303.34.00', '- - Turbots (Psetta maxima)', '5%', 'E0'], ['233', '0303.39.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack\nor stripe-bellied bonito (Euthynnus\n(Katsuwonus) pelamis), excluding edible\nfish offal of subheadings 0303.91 to\n0303.99 :', '', ''], ['234', '0303.41.00', '- - Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus\nalalunga)', '5%', 'EX'], ['235', '0303.42.00', '- - Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', '5%', 'SS'], ['236', '0303.43.00', '- - Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', '5%', 'SS'], ['237', '0303.44.00', '- - Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '0303.45', '- - Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas\n(Thunnus thynnus, Thunnus orientalis) :', '', ''], ['238', '0303.45.10', '- - - Atlantic bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus)', '5%', 'SS'], ['239', '0303.45.90', '- - - Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\norientalis)', '0%', 'E0'], ['240', '0303.46.00', '- - Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nmaccoyii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['241', '0303.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii), anchovies (Engraulis spp.),\nsardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops\nspp.), sardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling\nor sprats (Sprattus sprattus), mackerel\n(Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus), Indian\nmackerels (Rastrelliger spp.), seerfishes\n(Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse\nmackerel (Trachurus spp.), jacks,\ncrevalles (Caranx spp.), cobia\n(Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis\nsaira), scads (Decapterus spp.), capelin\n(Mallotus villosus), swordfish (Xiphias', '', ''], ['', '', 'gladius), Kawakawa (Euthynnus affinis),\nbonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins, sailfishes,\nspearfish (Istiophoridae), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheadings 0303.91\nto 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['242', '0303.51.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '5%', 'E10'], ['243', '0303.53.00', '- - Sardines (Sardina pilchardus,\nSardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella\nspp.), brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus)', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0303.54', '- - Mackerel (Scomber scombrus,\nScomber australasicus, Scomber\njaponicus) :', '', ''], ['244', '0303.54.10', '- - - Mackerel (Scomber scombrus,\nScomber australasicus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['245', '0303.54.20', '- - - Pacific mackerel (Scomber japonicus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['246', '0303.55.00', '- - Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus\nspp.)', '5%', 'E15'], ['247', '0303.56.00', '- - Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', '5%', 'E0'], ['248', '0303.57.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '0303.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['249', '0303.59.10', '- - - Indian mackerels (Rastrelliger\nkanagurta); Island mackerels\n(Rastrelliger faughni)', '5%', 'E10'], ['250', '0303.59.20', '- - - Silver pomfrets (Pampus spp.)', '5%', 'E15'], ['251', '0303.59.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '', '- Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, excluding edible fish\noffal of subheadings 0303.91 to 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['252', '0303.63.00', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '5%', 'E15'], ['253', '0303.64.00', '- - Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['254', '0303.65.00', '- - Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0%', 'E0'], ['255', '0303.66.00', '- - Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['256', '0303.67.00', '- - Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '5%', 'E15'], ['257', '0303.68.00', '- - Blue whitings (Micromesistius\npoutassou, Micromesistius australis)', '5%', 'E0'], ['258', '0303.69.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '', '- Other fish, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheadings 0303.91 to 0303.99 :', '', ''], ['259', '0303.81.00', '- - Dogfish and other sharks', '5%', 'E0'], ['260', '0303.82.00', '- - Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '5%', 'E0'], ['261', '0303.83.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['262', '0303.84.00', '- - Seabass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0303.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Marine fish :', '', ''], ['263', '0303.89.11', '- - - - Grouper', '10%', 'E20'], ['264', '0303.89.12', '- - - - Longfin mojarra (Pentaprion\nlongimanus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['265', '0303.89.13', '- - - - Bluntnose lizardfish\n(Trachinocephalus myops)', '5%', 'E0'], ['266', '0303.89.14', '- - - - Savalai hairtails (Lepturacanthus\nsavala), Belanger’s croakers (Johnius\nbelangerii), Reeve’s croakers (Chrysochir\naureus) and bigeye croakers (Pennahia\nanea)', '5%', 'E0'], ['267', '0303.89.16', '- - - - Torpedo scads (Megalaspis\ncordyla), spotted sicklefish (Drepane\npunctata) and great barracudas\n(Sphyraena barracuda)', '5%', 'E0'], ['268', '0303.89.17', '- - - - Black pomfrets (Parastromatus\nniger)', '5%', 'E10'], ['269', '0303.89.18', '- - - - Mangrove red snappers (Lutjanus\nargentimaculatus)', '5%', 'E10'], ['270', '0303.89.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['271', '0303.89.22', '- - - - Swamp barb (Puntius chola)', '5%', 'E0'], ['272', '0303.89.26', '- - - - Indian threadfins (Polynemus\nindicus) and silver grunts (pomadasys\nargenteus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['273', '0303.89.27', '- - - - Hilsa shad (Tenualosa ilisha)', '5%', 'E0'], ['274', '0303.89.28', '- - - - Wallago (Wallago attu) and giant\nriver-catfish (Sperata seenghala)', '5%', 'E0'], ['275', '0303.89.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Livers, roes, milt, fish fins, heads, tails,\nmaws and other edible fish offal :', '', ''], ['276', '0303.91.00', '- - Livers, roes and milt', '0%', 'E0'], ['277', '0303.92.00', '- - Shark fins', '5%', 'E0'], ['278', '0303.99.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '03.04', 'Fish fillets and other fish meat\n(whether or not minced), fresh, chilled\nor frozen.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fresh or chilled fillets of tilapias\n(Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus\nspp.), carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla,\nLabeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama\nspp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa', '', ''], ['', '', 'spp.) :', '', ''], ['279', '0304.31.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['280', '0304.32.00', '- - Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['281', '0304.33.00', '- - Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['282', '0304.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fresh or chilled fillets of other fish :', '', ''], ['283', '0304.41.00', '- - Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus\nmasou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0%', 'E0'], ['284', '0304.42.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['285', '0304.43.00', '- - Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae,\nCynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scophthalmidae\nand Citharidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['286', '0304.44.00', '- - Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', '0%', 'E0'], ['287', '0304.45.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0%', 'E0'], ['288', '0304.46.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['289', '0304.47.00', '- - Dogfish and other sharks', '0%', 'E0'], ['290', '0304.48.00', '- - Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['291', '0304.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['292', '0304.51.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['293', '0304.52.00', '- - Salmonidae', '0%', 'E0'], ['294', '0304.53.00', '- - Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', '0%', 'E0'], ['295', '0304.54.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0%', 'E0'], ['296', '0304.55.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['297', '0304.56.00', '- - Dogfish and other sharks', '0%', 'E0'], ['298', '0304.57.00', '- - Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['299', '0304.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Frozen fillets of tilapias (Oreochromis\nspp.), catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus\nspp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla,\nLabeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama\nspp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['300', '0304.61.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['301', '0304.62.00', '- - Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp.,\nClarias spp., Ictalurus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['302', '0304.63.00', '- - Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['303', '0304.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Frozen fillets of fish of the families\nBregmacerotidae, Euclichthyidae,\nGadidae, Macrouridae, Melanonidae,\nMerlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae :', '', ''], ['304', '0304.71.00', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['305', '0304.72.00', '- - Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['306', '0304.73.00', '- - Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', '0%', 'E0'], ['307', '0304.74.00', '- - Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis\nspp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['308', '0304.75.00', '- - Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '0%', 'E0'], ['309', '0304.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Frozen fillets of other fish :', '', ''], ['310', '0304.81.00', '- - Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus\nmasou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0%', 'E0'], ['311', '0304.82.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['312', '0304.83.00', '- - Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae,\nCynoglossidae, Soleidae, Scophthalmidae\nand Citharidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['313', '0304.84.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0%', 'E0'], ['314', '0304.85.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['315', '0304.86.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['316', '0304.87.00', '- - Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack\nor stripe-bellied bonito (Euthynnus\n(Katsuwonus) pelamis)', '0%', 'E0'], ['317', '0304.88.00', '- - Dogfish, other sharks, rays and skates\n(Rajidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['318', '0304.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, frozen :', '', ''], ['319', '0304.91.00', '- - Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', '0%', 'E0'], ['320', '0304.92.00', '- - Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['321', '0304.93.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['322', '0304.94.00', '- - Alaska Pollack (Theragra\nchalcogramma)', '0%', 'E0'], ['323', '0304.95.00', '- - Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, Other than Alaska\nPollack (Theragra chalcogramma)', '0%', 'E0'], ['324', '0304.96.00', '- - Dogfish and other sharks', '0%', 'E0'], ['325', '0304.97.00', '- - Rays and skates (Rajidae)', '0%', 'E0'], ['326', '0304.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '03.05', 'Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked\nfish, whether or not cooked before or\nduring the smoking process; flours,\nmeals and pellets of fish, fit for human\nconsumption.', '', ''], ['327', '0305.10.00', '- Flours, meals and pellets of fish, fit for\nhuman consumption', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0305.20', '- Livers, roes and milt of fish, dried,\nsmoked, salted or in brine :', '', ''], ['328', '0305.20.10', '- - Of freshwater fish, dried, salted or in\nbrine', '5%', 'E10'], ['329', '0305.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fish fillets, dried, salted or in brine, but\nnot smoked :', '', ''], ['330', '0305.31.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['331', '0305.32.00', '- - Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0305.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['332', '0305.39.10', '- - - Freshwater garfish (Xenentodon\ncancila), yellowstriped goatfish (Upeneus\nvittatus) and long-rakered trevally (Ulua\nmentalis)', '0%', 'E0'], ['333', '0305.39.20', '- - - Savalai hairtails (Lepturacanthus\nsavala), Belanger’s croakers (Johnius\nbelangerii), Reeve’s croakers (Chrysochir\naureus) and bigeye croakers (Pennahia\nanea)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['334', '0305.39.91', '- - - - Of freshwater fish', '0%', 'E0'], ['335', '0305.39.92', '- - - - Of marine fish', '0%', 'E0'], ['336', '0305.39.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Smoked fish, including fillets, other than\nedible fish offal :', '', ''], ['337', '0305.41.00', '- - Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus\nmasou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and\nDanube salmon (Hucho hucho)', '0%', 'E0'], ['338', '0305.42.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['339', '0305.43.00', '- - Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus\nmykiss, Oncorhynchus clarki,\nOncorhynchus aguabonita, Oncorhynchus\ngilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', '0%', 'E0'], ['340', '0305.44.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'Nile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '', ''], ['341', '0305.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dried fish, other than edible fish offal,\nwhether or not salted but not smoked :', '', ''], ['342', '0305.51.00', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['343', '0305.52.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['344', '0305.53.00', '- - Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, other than cod (Gadus\nmorhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', '5%', 'E20'], ['345', '0305.54.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii), anchovies (Engraulis spp.),\nsardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops\nspp.), sardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling\nor sprats (Sprattus sprattus), mackerel\n(Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus), Indian\nmackerels (Rastrelliger spp.), seerfishes\n(Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse\nmackerel (Trachurus spp.), jacks,\ncrevalles (Caranx spp.), cobia\n(Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis\nsaira), scads (Decapterus spp.), capelin\n(Mallotus villosus), swordfish (Xiphias\ngladius), Kawakawa (Euthynnus affinis),\nbonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins, sailfishes,\nspearfish (Istiophoridae)', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '0305.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Marine fish :', '', ''], ['346', '0305.59.21', '- - - - Anchovies (Stolephorus spp., Coilia\nspp., Setipinna spp., Lycothrissa spp. and\nThryssa spp., Encrasicholina spp.)', '5%', 'E10'], ['347', '0305.59.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['348', '0305.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fish, salted but not dried or smoked and\nfish in brine, other than edible fish offal :', '', ''], ['349', '0305.61.00', '- - Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea\npallasii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['350', '0305.62.00', '- - Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac,\nGadus macrocephalus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['351', '0305.63.00', '- - Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', '5%', 'EX'], ['352', '0305.64.00', '- - Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish\n(Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), Carp (Cyprinus spp.,\nCarassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla Catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus\nhasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.),\nNile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '0305.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['353', '0305.69.10', '- - - Marine fish', '5%', 'E15'], ['354', '0305.69.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '', '- Fish fins, heads, tails, maws and other\nedible fish offal :', '', ''], ['355', '0305.71.00', '- - Shark fins', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0305.72', '- - Fish heads, tails and maws :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fish maws :', '', ''], ['356', '0305.72.11', '- - - - Of cod', '0%', 'E0'], ['357', '0305.72.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['358', '0305.72.91', '- - - - Of cod', '5%', 'E10'], ['359', '0305.72.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0305.79', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['360', '0305.79.10', '- - - Of cod', '5%', 'E10'], ['361', '0305.79.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '03.06', 'Crustaceans, whether in shell or not,\nlive, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted\nor in brine; smoked crustaceans,\nwhether in shell or not, whether or not\ncooked before or during the smoking\nprocess; crustaceans, in shell, cooked\nby steaming or by boiling in water,\nwhether or not chilled, frozen, dried,\nsalted or in brine; flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Frozen :', '', ''], ['', '0306.11', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['362', '0306.11.10', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'SS'], ['363', '0306.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0306.12', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.) :', '', ''], ['364', '0306.12.10', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'EX'], ['365', '0306.12.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0306.14', '- - Crabs :', '', ''], ['366', '0306.14.10', '- - - Soft shell crabs', '5%', 'E10'], ['367', '0306.14.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['368', '0306.15.00', '- - Norway lobsters (Nephrops\nnorvegicus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['369', '0306.16.00', '- - Cold-water shrimps and prawns\n(Pandalus spp., Crangon crangon)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '0306.17', '- - Other shrimps and prawns :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Giant tiger prawns (Penaeus\nmonodon) :', '', ''], ['370', '0306.17.11', '- - - - Headless', '5%', 'EX'], ['371', '0306.17.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Whiteleg shrimps (Litopenaeus\nvannamei) :', '', ''], ['372', '0306.17.21', '- - - - Headless, with tail', '5%', 'SS'], ['373', '0306.17.22', '- - - - Headless, without tail', '5%', 'SS'], ['374', '0306.17.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['375', '0306.17.30', '- - - Giant river prawns (Macrobrachium\nrosenbergii)', '5%', 'EX'], ['376', '0306.17.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['377', '0306.19.00', '- - Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['', '0306.31', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['378', '0306.31.10', '- - - Breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['379', '0306.31.20', '- - - Other, live', '0%', 'E0'], ['380', '0306.31.30', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0306.32', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.) :', '', ''], ['381', '0306.32.10', '- - - Breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['382', '0306.32.20', '- - - Other, Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['383', '0306.32.30', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['384', '0306.33.00', '- - Crabs', '5%', 'E0'], ['385', '0306.34.00', '- - Norway lobsters (Nephrops\nnorvegicus)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0306.35', '- - Cold-water shrimps and prawns\n(Pandalus spp., Crangon crangon) :', '', ''], ['386', '0306.35.10', '- - - Breeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['387', '0306.35.20', '- - - Other, live', '5%', 'E0'], ['388', '0306.35.30', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0306.36', '- - Other shrimps and prawns :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Breeding :', '', ''], ['389', '0306.36.11', '- - - - Giant tiger prawns (Penaeus\nmonodon)', '0%', 'E0'], ['390', '0306.36.12', '- - - - Whiteleg shrimps (Litopenaeus\nvannamei)', '0%', 'E0'], ['391', '0306.36.13', '- - - - Giant river prawns (Macrobrachium\nrosenbergii)', '0%', 'E0'], ['392', '0306.36.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, live :', '', ''], ['393', '0306.36.21', '- - - - Giant tiger prawns (Penaeus\nmonodon)', '5%', 'E0'], ['394', '0306.36.22', '- - - - Whiteleg shrimps (Litopenaeus\nvannamei)', '5%', 'E10'], ['395', '0306.36.23', '- - - - Giant river prawns (Macrobrachium\nrosenbergii)', '5%', 'E0'], ['396', '0306.36.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['397', '0306.36.31', '- - - - Giant tiger prawns (Penaeus\nmonodon)', '5%', 'SS'], ['398', '0306.36.32', '- - - - Whiteleg shrimps (Litopenaeus\nvannamei)', '5%', 'SS'], ['399', '0306.36.33', '- - - - Giant river prawns (Macrobrachium\nrosenbergii)', '5%', 'SS'], ['400', '0306.36.39', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '0306.39', '- - Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption :', '', ''], ['401', '0306.39.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['402', '0306.39.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['403', '0306.39.30', '- - - Flours, meals and pellets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '0306.91', '- - Rock lobster and other sea crawfish\n(Palinurus spp., Panulirus spp., Jasus\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['404', '0306.91.21', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['405', '0306.91.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['406', '0306.91.31', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['407', '0306.91.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0306.92', '- - Lobsters (Homarus spp.) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['408', '0306.92.21', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['409', '0306.92.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['410', '0306.92.31', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['411', '0306.92.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0306.93', '- - Crabs :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['412', '0306.93.21', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['413', '0306.93.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['414', '0306.93.30', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0306.94', '- - Norway lobsters (Nephrops\nnorvegicus) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['415', '0306.94.21', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['416', '0306.94.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['417', '0306.94.31', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['418', '0306.94.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0306.95', '- - Shrimps and prawns :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['419', '0306.95.21', '- - - - In shell, cooked by steaming or\nboiling in water', '5%', 'EX'], ['420', '0306.95.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['421', '0306.95.30', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '0306.99', '- - Other, including flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['422', '0306.99.21', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['423', '0306.99.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['424', '0306.99.31', '- - - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['425', '0306.99.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '03.07', 'Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live,\nfresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted or in\nbrine; smoked molluscs, whether in\nshell or not, whether or not cooked\nbefore or during the smoking process;\nflours, meals and pellets of molluscs, fit\nfor human consumption.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Oysters :', '', ''], ['', '0307.11', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['426', '0307.11.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['427', '0307.11.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['428', '0307.12.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['429', '0307.19.20', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['430', '0307.19.30', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Scallops, including queen scallops, of\nthe genera Pecten, Chlamys or\nPlacopecten :', '', ''], ['', '0307.21', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['431', '0307.21.10', '- - - Live', '5%', 'E10'], ['432', '0307.21.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['433', '0307.22.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['434', '0307.29.30', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['435', '0307.29.40', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mussels (Mytilus spp., Perna spp.) :', '', ''], ['', '0307.31', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['436', '0307.31.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['437', '0307.31.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['438', '0307.32.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['439', '0307.39.30', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['440', '0307.39.40', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cuttle fish and squid :', '', ''], ['', '0307.42', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Live :', '', ''], ['441', '0307.42.11', '- - - - Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['442', '0307.42.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['443', '0307.42.21', '- - - - Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.)', '5%', 'EX'], ['444', '0307.42.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0307.43', '- - Frozen :', '', ''], ['445', '0307.43.10', '- - - Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma,Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligospp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.)', '5%', 'EX'], ['446', '0307.43.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '0307.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine :', '', ''], ['447', '0307.49.21', '- - - - Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia\nmacrosoma, Sepiola spp.) and squid\n(Ommastrephes spp., Loligo spp.,\nNototodarus spp., Sepioteuthis spp.)', '5%', 'EX'], ['448', '0307.49.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['449', '0307.49.30', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Octopus (Octopus spp.) :', '', ''], ['', '0307.51', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['450', '0307.51.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['451', '0307.51.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['452', '0307.52.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['453', '0307.59.20', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['454', '0307.59.30', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.60', '- Snails, other than sea snails :', '', ''], ['455', '0307.60.10', '- - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['456', '0307.60.20', '- - Fresh, chilled or frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['457', '0307.60.40', '- - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['458', '0307.60.50', '- - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Clams, cockles and ark shells (families\nArcidae, Arcticidae, Cardiidae,\nDonacidae, Hiatellidae, Mactridae,\nMesodesmatidae, Myidae, Semelidae,\nSolecurtidae, Solenidae, Tridacnidae and\nVeneridae) :', '', ''], ['', '0307.71', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['459', '0307.71.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['460', '0307.71.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['461', '0307.72.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.79', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['462', '0307.79.30', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['463', '0307.79.40', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Abalone (Haliotis spp.) and stromboid\nconchs (Strombus spp.) :', '', ''], ['', '0307.81', '- - Live, fresh or chilled abalone (Haliotis\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['464', '0307.81.10', '- - - Live', '5%', 'E0'], ['465', '0307.81.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.82', '- - Live, fresh or chilled stromboid conchs\n(Strombus spp.) :', '', ''], ['466', '0307.82.10', '- - - Live', '5%', 'E10'], ['467', '0307.82.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E10'], ['468', '0307.83.00', '- - Frozen abalone (Haliotis spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['469', '0307.84.00', '- - Frozen stromboid conchs (Strombus\nspp.)', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '0307.87', '- - Other abalone (Haliotis spp.) :', '', ''], ['470', '0307.87.10', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '5%', 'E0'], ['471', '0307.87.20', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0307.88', '- - Other stromboid conchs (Strombus\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['472', '0307.88.10', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '5%', 'E0'], ['473', '0307.88.20', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, including flours, meals and\npellets, fit for human consumption :', '', ''], ['', '0307.91', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['474', '0307.91.10', '- - - Live', '5%', 'E10'], ['475', '0307.91.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '5%', 'E10'], ['476', '0307.92.00', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'E20'], ['', '0307.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['477', '0307.99.30', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '5%', 'E0'], ['478', '0307.99.40', '- - - Smoked', '5%', 'E0'], ['479', '0307.99.50', '- - - Flours, meals and pellets of molluscs', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '03.08', 'Aquatic invertebrates other than\ncrustaceans and molluscs, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine;\nsmoked aquatic invertebrates other\nthan crustaceans and molluscs, whether\nor not cooked before or during the\nsmoking process; flours, meals and\npellets of aquatic invertebrates other\nthan crustaceans and molluscs, fit for\nhuman consumption.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sea cucumbers (Stichopus japonicus,\nHolothuroidea) :', '', ''], ['', '0308.11', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['480', '0308.11.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['481', '0308.11.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['482', '0308.12.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0308.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['483', '0308.19.20', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['484', '0308.19.30', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus spp.,\nParacentrotus lividus, Loxechinus albus,\nEchinus esculentus) :', '', ''], ['', '0308.21', '- - Live, fresh or chilled :', '', ''], ['485', '0308.21.10', '- - - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['486', '0308.21.20', '- - - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['487', '0308.22.00', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0308.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['488', '0308.29.20', '- - - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['489', '0308.29.30', '- - - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0308.30', '- Jellyfish (Rhopilema spp.) :', '', ''], ['490', '0308.30.10', '- - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['491', '0308.30.20', '- - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['492', '0308.30.30', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['493', '0308.30.40', '- - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['494', '0308.30.50', '- - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0308.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['495', '0308.90.10', '- - Live', '0%', 'E0'], ['496', '0308.90.20', '- - Fresh or chilled', '0%', 'E0'], ['497', '0308.90.30', '- - Frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['498', '0308.90.40', '- - Dried, salted or in brine', '0%', 'E0'], ['499', '0308.90.50', '- - Smoked', '0%', 'E0'], ['500', '0308.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '04.01', 'Milk and cream, not concentrated nor\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', '', ''], ['', '0401.10', '- Of a fat content, by weight, not\nexceeding 1 % :', '', ''], ['501', '0401.10.10', '- - In liquid form', '5%', 'E15'], ['502', '0401.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0401.20', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding\n1 % but not exceeding 6 % :', '', ''], ['503', '0401.20.10', '- - In liquid form', '5%', 'E15'], ['504', '0401.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0401.40', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding\n6 % but not exceeding 10 % :', '', ''], ['505', '0401.40.10', '- - Milk in liquid form', '5%', 'E0'], ['506', '0401.40.20', '- - Milk in frozen form', '5%', 'E0'], ['507', '0401.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0401.50', '- Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding\n10 % :', '', ''], ['508', '0401.50.10', '- - In liquid form', '5%', 'E0'], ['509', '0401.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.02', 'Milk and cream, concentrated or\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', '', ''], ['', '0402.10', '- In powder, granules or other solid forms,\nof a fat content, by weight, not exceeding\n1.5 % :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Not containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter :', '', ''], ['510', '0402.10.41', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 20 kg\nor more', '5%', 'EX'], ['511', '0402.10.42', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 2 kg', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', 'or less', '', ''], ['512', '0402.10.49', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['513', '0402.10.91', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 20 kg\nor more', '5%', 'EX'], ['514', '0402.10.92', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 2 kg\nor less', '5%', 'EX'], ['515', '0402.10.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- In powder, granules or other solid forms,\nof a fat content, by weight, exceeding\n1.5 % :', '', ''], ['', '0402.21', '- - Not containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter :', '', ''], ['516', '0402.21.20', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 20 kg\nor more', '5%', 'EX'], ['517', '0402.21.30', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 2 kg\nor less', '5%', 'EX'], ['518', '0402.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '0402.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['519', '0402.29.20', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 20 kg\nor more', '5%', 'EX'], ['520', '0402.29.30', '- - - In containers of a net weight of 2 kg\nor less', '5%', 'EX'], ['521', '0402.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['522', '0402.91.00', '- - Not containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter', '5%', 'EX'], ['523', '0402.99.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '04.03', 'Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream,\nyogurt, kephir and other fermented or\nacidified milk and cream, whether or\nnot concentrated or containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter or\nflavoured or containing added fruit,\nnuts or cocoa.', '', ''], ['', '0403.10', '- Yogurt :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - In liquid form, whether or not\ncondensed :', '', ''], ['524', '0403.10.21', '- - - flavoured or containing added fruits\n(including pulp and jams), nuts or cocoa', '10%', 'E0'], ['525', '0403.10.29', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['526', '0403.10.91', '- - - Flavoured or containing added fruits\n(including pulp and jams), nuts or cocoa', '10%', 'E0'], ['527', '0403.10.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '0403.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['528', '0403.90.10', '- - Buttermilk', '5%', 'E0'], ['529', '0403.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.04', 'Whey, whether or not concentrated or\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter; products consisting\nof natural milk constituents, whether or\nnot containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['', '0404.10', '- Whey and modified whey, whether or\nnot concentrated or containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter :', '', ''], ['530', '0404.10.10', '- - In powder form', '5%', 'E0'], ['531', '0404.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['532', '0404.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.05', 'Butter and other fats and oils derived\nfrom milk; dairy spreads.', '', ''], ['533', '0405.10.00', '- Butter', '5%', 'E0'], ['534', '0405.20.00', '- Dairy spreads', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0405.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['535', '0405.90.10', '- - Anhydrous butterfat', '5%', 'E0'], ['536', '0405.90.20', '- - Butteroil', '5%', 'E0'], ['537', '0405.90.30', '- - Ghee', '5%', 'E0'], ['538', '0405.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.06', 'Cheese and curd.', '', ''], ['', '0406.10', '- Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese,\nincluding whey cheese, and curd :', '', ''], ['539', '0406.10.10', '- - Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese,\nincluding whey cheese', '5%', 'E0'], ['540', '0406.10.20', '- - Curd', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0406.20', '- Grated or powdered cheese, of all\nkinds :', '', ''], ['541', '0406.20.10', '- - In packages of a gross weight\nexceeding 20 kg', '5%', 'E0'], ['542', '0406.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['543', '0406.30.00', '- Processed cheese, not grated or\npowdered', '5%', 'E0'], ['544', '0406.40.00', '- Blue-veined cheese and other cheese\ncontaining veins produced by Penicillium\nroqueforti', '5%', 'E0'], ['545', '0406.90.00', '- Other cheese', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.07', 'Birds’ eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or\ncooked.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fertilised eggs for incubation :', '', ''], ['', '0407.11', '- - Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus :', '', ''], ['546', '0407.11.10', '- - - For Breeding', '5%', 'E0'], ['547', '0407.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0407.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of ducks :', '', ''], ['548', '0407.19.11', '- - - - For breeding', '5%', 'E0'], ['549', '0407.19.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['550', '0407.19.91', '- - - - For breeding', '5%', 'E0'], ['551', '0407.19.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other fresh eggs :', '', ''], ['552', '0407.21.00', '- - Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0407.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['553', '0407.29.10', '- - - Of ducks', '5%', 'E0'], ['554', '0407.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0407.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['555', '0407.90.10', '- - Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus', '5%', 'E0'], ['556', '0407.90.20', '- - Of ducks', '5%', 'E0'], ['557', '0407.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '04.08', 'Birds’ eggs, not in shell, and egg yolks,\nfresh, dried, cooked by steaming or by\nboiling in water, moulded, frozen or\notherwise preserved, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Egg yolks :', '', ''], ['558', '0408.11.00', '- - Dried', '0%', 'E0'], ['559', '0408.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['560', '0408.91.00', '- - Dried', '5%', 'E0'], ['561', '0408.99.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['562', '0409.00.00', 'Natural honey.', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '04.10', 'Edible products of animal origin, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['563', '0410.00.10', "- Birds' nests", '0%', 'E0'], ['564', '0410.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['565', '0501.00.00', 'Human hair, unworked, whether or not\nwashed or scoured; waste of human\nhair.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '05.02', 'Pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair;\nbadger hair and other brush making\nhair; waste of such bristles or hair.', '', ''], ['566', '0502.10.00', '- Pigs’, hogs’ or boars’ bristles and hair\nand waste thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['567', '0502.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['568', '0504.00.00', 'Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals\n(other than fish), whole and pieces\nthereof, fresh, chilled, frozen, salted, in\nbrine, dried or smoked.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '05.05', 'Skins and other parts of birds, with\ntheir feathers or down, feathers and\nparts of feathers (whether or not with\ntrimmed edges) and down, not further\nworked than cleaned, disinfected or\ntreated for preservation; powder and\nwaste of feathers or parts of feathers.', '', ''], ['', '0505.10', '- Feathers of a kind used for stuffing;', '', ''], ['', '', 'down :', '', ''], ['569', '0505.10.10', '- - Duck feathers', '0%', 'E0'], ['570', '0505.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0505.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['571', '0505.90.10', '- - Duck feathers', '0%', 'E0'], ['572', '0505.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '05.06', 'Bones and horn-cores, unworked,\ndefatted, simply prepared (but not cut\nto shape), treated with acid or\ndegelatinised; powder and waste of\nthese products.', '', ''], ['573', '0506.10.00', '- Ossein and bones treated with acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['574', '0506.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '05.07', 'Ivory, tortoise-shell, whalebone and\nwhalebone hair, horns, antlers, hooves,\nnails, claws and beaks, unworked or\nsimply prepared but not cut to shape;\npowder and waste of these products.', '', ''], ['575', '0507.10.00', '- Ivory; ivory powder and waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0507.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['576', '0507.90.20', '- - Tortoise-shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['577', '0507.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '05.08', 'Coral and similar materials, unworked\nor simply prepared but not otherwise\nworked; shells of molluscs, crustaceans\nor echinoderms and cuttle-bone,\nunworked or simply prepared but not\ncut to shape, powder and waste thereof.', '', ''], ['578', '0508.00.20', '- Shells of molluscs, crustaceans or\nechinoderms', '0%', 'E0'], ['579', '0508.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['580', '0510.00.00', 'Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk;\ncantharides; bile, whether or not dried;\nglands and other animal products used\nin the preparation of pharmaceutical\nproducts, fresh, chilled, frozen or\notherwise provisionally preserved.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '05.11', 'Animal products not elsewhere\nspecified or included; dead animals of\nChapter 1 or 3, unfit for human\nconsumption.', '', ''], ['581', '0511.10.00', '- Bovine semen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '0511.91', '- - Products of fish or crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates;\ndead animals of Chapter 3 :', '', ''], ['582', '0511.91.10', '- - - Roes and milt', '0%', 'E0'], ['583', '0511.91.20', '- - - Artemia egg (Brine shrimp egg)', '0%', 'E0'], ['584', '0511.91.30', '- - - Fish Skin', '0%', 'E0'], ['585', '0511.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0511.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['586', '0511.99.10', '- - - Domestic animal semen', '0%', 'E0'], ['587', '0511.99.20', '- - - Silk worm eggs', '0%', 'E0'], ['588', '0511.99.30', '- - - Natural sponges', '0%', 'E0'], ['589', '0511.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '06.01', 'Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms,\ncrowns and rhizomes, dormant, in\ngrowth or in flower; chicory plants and\nroots other than roots of heading 12.12.', '', ''], ['590', '0601.10.00', '- Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms,\ncrowns and rhizomes, dormant', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0601.20', '- Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms,\ncrowns and rhizomes, in growth or in\nflower; chicory plants and roots :', '', ''], ['591', '0601.20.10', '- - Chicory plants', '0%', 'E0'], ['592', '0601.20.20', '- - Chicory roots', '0%', 'E0'], ['593', '0601.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '06.02', 'Other live plants (including their roots),\ncuttings and slips; mushroom spawn.', '', ''], ['', '0602.10', '- Unrooted cuttings and slips :', '', ''], ['594', '0602.10.10', '- - Of orchids', '0%', 'E0'], ['595', '0602.10.20', '- - Of rubber trees', '0%', 'E0'], ['596', '0602.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['597', '0602.20.00', '- Trees, shrubs and bushes, grafted or not,\nof kinds which bear edible fruit or nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['598', '0602.30.00', '- Rhododendrons and azaleas, grafted or\nnot', '0%', 'E0'], ['599', '0602.40.00', '- Roses, grafted or not', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0602.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['600', '0602.90.10', '- - Rooted orchid cuttings and slips', '0%', 'E0'], ['601', '0602.90.20', '- - Orchid seedlings', '0%', 'E0'], ['602', '0602.90.40', '- - Budded stumps of the genus Hevea', '0%', 'E0'], ['603', '0602.90.50', '- - Seedlings of the genus Hevea', '0%', 'E0'], ['604', '0602.90.60', '- - Budwood of the genus Hevea', '0%', 'E0'], ['605', '0602.90.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '06.03', 'Cut flowers and flower buds of a kind\nsuitable for bouquets or for ornamental\npurposes, fresh, dried, dyed, bleached,\nimpregnated or otherwise prepared.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fresh :', '', ''], ['606', '0603.11.00', '- - Roses', '20%', 'EX'], ['607', '0603.12.00', '- - Carnations', '20%', 'EX'], ['608', '0603.13.00', '- - Orchids', '20%', 'EX'], ['609', '0603.14.00', '- - Chrysanthemums', '20%', 'EX'], ['610', '0603.15.00', '- - Lilies (Lilium spp.)', '20%', 'EX'], ['611', '0603.19.00', '- - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['612', '0603.90.00', '- Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['', '06.04', 'Foliage, branches and other parts of\nplants, without flowers or flower buds,\nand grasses, mosses and lichens, being\ngoods of a kind suitable for bouquets or\nfor ornamental purposes, fresh, dried,\ndyed, bleached, impregnated or\notherwise prepared.', '', ''], ['', '0604.20', '- Fresh :', '', ''], ['613', '0604.20.10', '- - Mosses and lichens', '0%', 'E0'], ['614', '0604.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0604.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['615', '0604.90.10', '- - Mosses and lichens', '0%', 'E0'], ['616', '0604.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.01', 'Potatoes, fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['617', '0701.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0701.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['618', '0701.90.10', '- - Chipping potatoes', '20%', 'EX'], ['619', '0701.90.90', '- - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['620', '0702.00.00', 'Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '07.03', 'Onions, shallots, garlic, leeks and other\nalliaceous vegetables, fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['', '0703.10', '- Onions and shallots :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Onions :', '', ''], ['621', '0703.10.11', '- - - Bulbs for propagation', '0%', 'E0'], ['622', '0703.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Shallots :', '', ''], ['623', '0703.10.21', '- - - Bulbs for propagation', '0%', 'E0'], ['624', '0703.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0703.20', '- Garlic :', '', ''], ['625', '0703.20.10', '- - Bulbs for propagation', '0%', 'E0'], ['626', '0703.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '0703.90', '- Leeks and other alliaceous vegetables :', '', ''], ['627', '0703.90.10', '- - Bulbs for propagation', '0%', 'E0'], ['628', '0703.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.04', 'Cabbages, cauliflowers, kohlrabi, kale\nand similar edible brassicas, fresh or\nchilled.', '', ''], ['', '0704.10', '- Cauliflowers and headed broccoli :', '', ''], ['629', '0704.10.10', '- - Cauliflowers', '5%', 'E15'], ['630', '0704.10.20', '- - Headed broccoli', '5%', 'E15'], ['631', '0704.20.00', '- Brussels sprouts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0704.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['632', '0704.90.10', '- - Round (drumhead) cabbages', '0%', 'E0'], ['633', '0704.90.20', '- - Chinese mustard', '0%', 'E0'], ['634', '0704.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.05', 'Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and chicory\n(Cichorium spp.), fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Lettuce :', '', ''], ['635', '0705.11.00', '- - Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce)', '0%', 'E0'], ['636', '0705.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Chicory :', '', ''], ['637', '0705.21.00', '- - Witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus\nvar. foliosum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['638', '0705.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.06', 'Carrots, turnips, salad beetroot, salsify,\nceleriac, radishes and similar edible\nroots, fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['', '0706.10', '- Carrots and turnips :', '', ''], ['639', '0706.10.10', '- - Carrots', '0%', 'E0'], ['640', '0706.10.20', '- - Turnips', '0%', 'E0'], ['641', '0706.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['642', '0707.00.00', 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or\nchilled.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.08', 'Leguminous vegetables, shelled or\nunshelled, fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['643', '0708.10.00', '- Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0708.20', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.) :', '', ''], ['644', '0708.20.10', '- - French beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['645', '0708.20.20', '- - Long beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['646', '0708.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['647', '0708.90.00', '- Other leguminous vegetables', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.09', 'Other vegetables, fresh or chilled.', '', ''], ['648', '0709.20.00', '- Asparagus', '5%', 'E0'], ['649', '0709.30.00', '- Aubergines (egg-plants)', '0%', 'E0'], ['650', '0709.40.00', '- Celery other than celeriac', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mushrooms and truffles :', '', ''], ['651', '0709.51.00', '- - Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0709.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['652', '0709.59.10', '- - - Truffles', '0%', 'E0'], ['653', '0709.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0709.60', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the\ngenus Pimenta :', '', ''], ['654', '0709.60.10', '- - Chillies (fruits of genus Capsicum)', '5%', 'EX'], ['655', '0709.60.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['656', '0709.70.00', '- Spinach, New Zealand spinach and\norache spinach (garden spinach)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['657', '0709.91.00', '- - Globe artichokes', '0%', 'E0'], ['658', '0709.92.00', '- - Olives', '0%', 'E0'], ['659', '0709.93.00', '- - Pumpkins, squash and gourds\n(Cucurbita spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0709.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['660', '0709.99.10', '- - - Sweet corn', '0%', 'E0'], ['661', '0709.99.20', "- - - Lady's finger (Okra)", '0%', 'E0'], ['662', '0709.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.10', 'Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by\nsteaming or boiling in water), frozen.', '', ''], ['663', '0710.10.00', '- Potatoes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Leguminous vegetables, shelled or\nunshelled :', '', ''], ['664', '0710.21.00', '- - Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['665', '0710.22.00', '- - Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['666', '0710.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['667', '0710.30.00', '- Spinach, New Zealand spinach and\norache spinach (garden spinach)', '0%', 'E0'], ['668', '0710.40.00', '- Sweet corn', '0%', 'E0'], ['669', '0710.80.00', '- Other vegetables', '5%', 'E10'], ['670', '0710.90.00', '- Mixtures of vegetables', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.11', 'Vegetables provisionally preserved (for\nexample, by sulphur dioxide gas, in\nbrine, in sulphur water or in other\npreservative solutions), but unsuitable\nin that state for immediate\nconsumption.', '', ''], ['', '0711.20', '- Olives :', '', ''], ['671', '0711.20.10', '- - Preserved by sulphur dioxide gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['672', '0711.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0711.40', '- Cucumbers and gherkins :', '', ''], ['673', '0711.40.10', '- - Preserved by sulphur dioxide gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['674', '0711.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mushrooms and truffles :', '', ''], ['', '0711.51', '- - Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus :', '', ''], ['675', '0711.51.10', '- - - Preserved by sulphur dioxide gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['676', '0711.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0711.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['677', '0711.59.10', '- - - Preserved by sulphur dioxide gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['678', '0711.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0711.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of\nvegetables :', '', ''], ['679', '0711.90.10', '- - Sweet corn', '0%', 'E0'], ['680', '0711.90.20', '- - Chillies (fruits of genus Capsicum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['681', '0711.90.30', '- - Capers', '0%', 'E0'], ['682', '0711.90.40', '- - Onions, preserved by sulphur dioxide\ngas', '0%', 'E0'], ['683', '0711.90.50', '- - Onions, preserved other than by\nsulphur dioxide gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['684', '0711.90.60', '- - Other, preserved by sulphur dioxide\ngas', '5%', 'E0'], ['685', '0711.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '07.12', 'Dried vegetables, whole, cut, sliced,\nbroken or in powder, but not further\nprepared.', '', ''], ['686', '0712.20.00', '- Onions', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mushrooms, wood ears (Auricularia\nspp.), jelly fungi (Tremella spp.) and\ntruffles :', '', ''], ['687', '0712.31.00', '- - Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', '0%', 'E0'], ['688', '0712.32.00', '- - Wood ears (Auricularia spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['689', '0712.33.00', '- - Jelly fungi (Tremella spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0712.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['690', '0712.39.10', '- - - Truffles', '0%', 'E0'], ['691', '0712.39.20', '- - - Shiitake (Dong-gu)', '5%', 'E10'], ['692', '0712.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0712.90', '- Other vegetables; mixtures of\nvegetables :', '', ''], ['693', '0712.90.10', '- - Garlic', '5%', 'E15'], ['694', '0712.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '07.13', 'Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled,\nwhether or not skinned or split.', '', ''], ['', '0713.10', '- Peas (Pisum sativum) :', '', ''], ['695', '0713.10.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['696', '0713.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.20', '- Chickpeas (garbanzos) :', '', ''], ['697', '0713.20.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['698', '0713.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.) :', '', ''], ['', '0713.31', '- - Beans of the species Vigna mungo (L.)\nHepper or Vigna radiata (L.) Wilczek :', '', ''], ['699', '0713.31.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['700', '0713.31.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '0713.32', '- - Small red (Adzuki) beans (Phaseolus or\nVigna angularis) :', '', ''], ['701', '0713.32.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['702', '0713.32.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0713.33', '- - Kidney beans, including white pea\nbeans (Phaseolus vulgaris) :', '', ''], ['703', '0713.33.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['704', '0713.33.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0713.34', '- - Bambara beans (Vigna subterranea or\nVoandzeia subterranea) :', '', ''], ['705', '0713.34.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['706', '0713.34.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0713.35', '- - Cow peas (Vigna unguiculata) :', '', ''], ['707', '0713.35.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['708', '0713.35.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['709', '0713.39.10', '- - - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['710', '0713.39.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.40', '- Lentils :', '', ''], ['711', '0713.40.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['712', '0713.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.50', '- Broad beans (Vicia faba var. major) and\nhorse beans (Vicia faba var. equina, Vicia\nfaba var. minor) :', '', ''], ['713', '0713.50.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['714', '0713.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.60', '- Pigeon peas (Cajanus cajan) :', '', ''], ['715', '0713.60.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['716', '0713.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0713.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['717', '0713.90.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', '0%', 'E0'], ['718', '0713.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '07.14', 'Manioc, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem\nartichokes, sweet potatoes and similar\nroots and tubers with high starch or\ninulin content, fresh, chilled, frozen or\ndried, whether or not sliced or in the\nform of pellets; sago pith.', '', ''], ['', '0714.10', '- Manioc (cassava) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Sliced or in the form of pellets :', '', ''], ['719', '0714.10.11', '- - - Dried chips', '5%', 'E10'], ['720', '0714.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['721', '0714.10.91', '- - - Frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['722', '0714.10.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0714.20', '- Sweet potatoes :', '', ''], ['723', '0714.20.10', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['724', '0714.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0714.30', '- Yams (Dioscorea spp.) :', '', ''], ['725', '0714.30.10', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['726', '0714.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0714.40', '- Taro (Colocasia spp.) :', '', ''], ['727', '0714.40.10', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'E0'], ['728', '0714.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0714.50', '- Yautia (Xanthosoma spp.) :', '', ''], ['729', '0714.50.10', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['730', '0714.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0714.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Sago pith :', '', ''], ['731', '0714.90.11', '- - - Frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['732', '0714.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['733', '0714.90.91', '- - - Frozen', '5%', 'E10'], ['734', '0714.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '08.01', 'Coconuts, Brazil nuts and cashew nuts,\nfresh or dried, whether or not shelled\nor peeled.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Coconuts :', '', ''], ['735', '0801.11.00', '- - Desiccated', '0%', 'E0'], ['736', '0801.12.00', '- - In the inner shell (endocarp)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0801.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['737', '0801.19.10', '- - - Young coconut', '0%', 'E0'], ['738', '0801.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Brazil nuts :', '', ''], ['739', '0801.21.00', '- - In shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['740', '0801.22.00', '- - Shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cashew nuts :', '', ''], ['741', '0801.31.00', '- - In shell', '5%', 'E0'], ['742', '0801.32.00', '- - Shelled', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '08.02', 'Other nuts, fresh or dried, whether or\nnot shelled or peeled.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Almonds :', '', ''], ['743', '0802.11.00', '- - In shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['744', '0802.12.00', '- - Shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Hazelnuts or filberts (Corylus spp.) :', '', ''], ['745', '0802.21.00', '- - In shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['746', '0802.22.00', '- - Shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Walnuts :', '', ''], ['747', '0802.31.00', '- - In shell', '5%', 'E0'], ['748', '0802.32.00', '- - Shelled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Chestnuts (Castanea spp.) :', '', ''], ['749', '0802.41.00', '- - In shell', '5%', 'E0'], ['750', '0802.42.00', '- - Shelled', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Pistachios :', '', ''], ['751', '0802.51.00', '- - In shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['752', '0802.52.00', '- - Shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Macadamia nuts :', '', ''], ['753', '0802.61.00', '- - In shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['754', '0802.62.00', '- - Shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['755', '0802.70.00', '- Kola nuts (Cola spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['756', '0802.80.00', '- Areca nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['757', '0802.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.03', 'Bananas, including plantains, fresh or\ndried.', '', ''], ['758', '0803.10.00', '- Plantains', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0803.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['759', '0803.90.10', "- - Lady's finger banana", '5%', 'E0'], ['760', '0803.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.04', 'Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados,\nguavas, mangoes and mangosteens,\nfresh or dried.', '', ''], ['761', '0804.10.00', '- Dates', '5%', 'E0'], ['762', '0804.20.00', '- Figs', '0%', 'E0'], ['763', '0804.30.00', '- Pineapples', '5%', 'E7'], ['764', '0804.40.00', '- Avocados', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0804.50', '- Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens :', '', ''], ['765', '0804.50.10', '- - Guavas', '5%', 'E7'], ['766', '0804.50.20', '- - Mangoes', '20%', 'E20'], ['767', '0804.50.30', '- - Mangosteens', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.05', 'Citrus fruit, fresh or dried.', '', ''], ['', '0805.10', '- Oranges :', '', ''], ['768', '0805.10.10', '- - Fresh', '5%', 'E20'], ['769', '0805.10.20', '- - Dried', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- Mandarins (including tangerines and\nsatsumas); clementines, wilkings and\nsimilar citrus hybrids :', '', ''], ['770', '0805.21.00', '- - Mandarins (including tangerines and\nsatsumas)', '5%', 'EX'], ['771', '0805.22.00', '- - Clementines', '5%', 'EX'], ['772', '0805.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['773', '0805.40.00', '- Grapefruit, including pomelos', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0805.50', '- Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus limonum)\nand limes (Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus\nlatifolia) :', '', ''], ['774', '0805.50.10', '- - Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus\nlimonum)', '5%', 'E7'], ['775', '0805.50.20', '- - Limes (Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus\nlatifolia)', '5%', 'E7'], ['776', '0805.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.06', 'Grapes, fresh or dried.', '', ''], ['777', '0806.10.00', '- Fresh', '5%', 'E0'], ['778', '0806.20.00', '- Dried', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.07', 'Melons (including watermelons) and\npapaws (papayas), fresh.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Melons (including watermelons) :', '', ''], ['779', '0807.11.00', '- - Watermelons', '0%', 'E0'], ['780', '0807.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['781', '0807.20.00', '- Papaws (papayas)', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '08.08', 'Apples, pears and quinces, fresh.', '', ''], ['782', '0808.10.00', '- Apples', '5%', 'E0'], ['783', '0808.30.00', '- Pears', '5%', 'E0'], ['784', '0808.40.00', '- Quinces', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '08.09', 'Apricots, cherries, peaches (including\nnectarines), plums and sloes, fresh.', '', ''], ['785', '0809.10.00', '- Apricots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cherries :', '', ''], ['786', '0809.21.00', '- - Sour cherries (Prunus cerasus)', '5%', 'E0'], ['787', '0809.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['788', '0809.30.00', '- Peaches, including nectarines', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0809.40', '- Plums and sloes :', '', ''], ['789', '0809.40.10', '- - Plums', '0%', 'E0'], ['790', '0809.40.20', '- - Sloes', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.10', 'Other fruit, fresh.', '', ''], ['791', '0810.10.00', '- Strawberries', '5%', 'E3'], ['792', '0810.20.00', '- Raspberries, blackberries, mulberries\nand loganberries', '0%', 'E0'], ['793', '0810.30.00', '- Black, white or red currants and\ngooseberries', '0%', 'E0'], ['794', '0810.40.00', '- Cranberries, bilberries and other fruits of\nthe genus Vaccinium', '0%', 'E0'], ['795', '0810.50.00', '- Kiwifruit', '5%', 'E0'], ['796', '0810.60.00', '- Durians', '5%', 'E0'], ['797', '0810.70.00', '- Persimmons', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0810.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['798', '0810.90.10', '- - Longans; Mata Kucing', '5%', 'E7'], ['799', '0810.90.20', '- - Lychees', '5%', 'E7'], ['800', '0810.90.30', '- - Rambutan', '5%', 'E0'], ['801', '0810.90.40', '- - Langsat (Lanzones)', '5%', 'E0'], ['802', '0810.90.50', '- - Jackfruit (including Cempedak and\nNangka)', '5%', 'E0'], ['803', '0810.90.60', '- - Tamarinds', '5%', 'E0'], ['804', '0810.90.70', '- - Starfruit', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['805', '0810.90.91', '- - - Salacca (snake fruit)', '5%', 'E0'], ['806', '0810.90.92', '- - - Dragon fruit', '5%', 'E7'], ['807', '0810.90.93', '- - - Sapodilla (ciku fruit)', '5%', 'E0'], ['808', '0810.90.94', '- - - Pomegranate (Punica spp.), soursop\nor sweetsops (Annona spp.), bell fruit\n(Syzygium spp., Eugenia spp.), marian\nplum (Bouea spp.), passion fruit\n(Passiflora spp.), cottonfruit (Sandoricum\nspp.), jujube (Ziziphus spp.) and tampoi or\nrambai (Baccaurea spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['809', '0810.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.11', 'Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by\nsteaming or boiling in water, frozen,\nwhether or not containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter.', '', ''], ['810', '0811.10.00', '- Strawberries', '5%', 'E0'], ['811', '0811.20.00', '- Raspberries, blackberries, mulberries,\nloganberries, black, white or red currants\nand gooseberries', '0%', 'E0'], ['812', '0811.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '08.12', 'Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved\n(for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in\nbrine, in sulphur water or in other\npreservative solutions), but unsuitable\nin that state for immediate\nconsumption.', '', ''], ['813', '0812.10.00', '- Cherries', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0812.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['814', '0812.90.10', '- - Strawberries', '5%', 'E7'], ['815', '0812.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '08.13', 'Fruit, dried, other than that of\nheadings 08.01 to 08.06; mixtures of\nnuts or dried fruits of this Chapter.', '', ''], ['816', '0813.10.00', '- Apricots', '0%', 'E0'], ['817', '0813.20.00', '- Prunes', '0%', 'E0'], ['818', '0813.30.00', '- Apples', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0813.40', '- Other fruit :', '', ''], ['819', '0813.40.10', '- - Longans', '5%', 'E0'], ['820', '0813.40.20', '- - Tamarinds', '5%', 'E0'], ['821', '0813.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '0813.50', '- Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this\nChapter :', '', ''], ['822', '0813.50.10', '- - Of which cashew nuts or Brazil nuts\npredominate by weight', '5%', 'E0'], ['823', '0813.50.20', '- - Of which other nuts predominate by\nweight', '5%', 'E0'], ['824', '0813.50.30', '- - Of which dates predominate by weight', '5%', 'E0'], ['825', '0813.50.40', '- - Of which avocados or oranges or\nmandarins (including tangerines and\nsatsumas) predominate by weight', '5%', 'E0'], ['826', '0813.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['827', '0814.00.00', 'Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including\nwatermelons), fresh, frozen, dried or\nprovisionally preserved in brine, in\nsulphur water or in other preservative\nsolutions.', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '09.01', 'Coffee, whether or not roasted or\ndecaffeinated; coffee husks and skins;\ncoffee substitutes containing coffee in\nany proportion.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Coffee, not roasted :', '', ''], ['', '0901.11', '- - Not decaffeinated :', '', ''], ['828', '0901.11.10', '- - - Arabica WIB or Robusta OIB', '0%', 'E0'], ['829', '0901.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0901.12', '- - Decaffeinated :', '', ''], ['830', '0901.12.10', '- - - Arabica WIB or Robusta OIB', '0%', 'E0'], ['831', '0901.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Coffee, roasted :', '', ''], ['', '0901.21', '- - Not decaffeinated :', '', ''], ['832', '0901.21.10', '- - - Unground', '0%', 'E0'], ['833', '0901.21.20', '- - - Ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0901.22', '- - Decaffeinated :', '', ''], ['834', '0901.22.10', '- - - Unground', '0%', 'E0'], ['835', '0901.22.20', '- - - Ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0901.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['836', '0901.90.10', '- - Coffee husks and skins', '0%', 'E0'], ['837', '0901.90.20', '- - Coffee substitutes containing coffee', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.02', 'Tea, whether or not flavoured.', '', ''], ['', '0902.10', '- Green tea (not fermented) in immediate\npackings of a content not exceeding 3 kg :', '', ''], ['838', '0902.10.10', '- - Leaves', '5%', 'E15'], ['839', '0902.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0902.20', '- Other green tea (not fermented) :', '', ''], ['840', '0902.20.10', '- - Leaves', '5%', 'E15'], ['841', '0902.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '0902.30', '- Black tea (fermented) and partly\nfermented tea, in immediate packings of a\ncontent not exceeding 3 kg :', '', ''], ['842', '0902.30.10', '- - Leaves', '0%', 'E0'], ['843', '0902.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0902.40', '- Other black tea (fermented) and other\npartly fermented tea :', '', ''], ['844', '0902.40.10', '- - Leaves', '0%', 'E0'], ['845', '0902.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['846', '0903.00.00', 'Maté.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.04', 'Pepper of the genus Piper; dried or\ncrushed or ground fruits of the genus\nCapsicum or of the genus Pimenta.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Pepper :', '', ''], ['', '0904.11', '- - Neither crushed nor ground :', '', ''], ['847', '0904.11.10', '- - - White', '0%', 'E0'], ['848', '0904.11.20', '- - - Black', '0%', 'E0'], ['849', '0904.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0904.12', '- - Crushed or ground :', '', ''], ['850', '0904.12.10', '- - - White', '0%', 'E0'], ['851', '0904.12.20', '- - - Black', '0%', 'E0'], ['852', '0904.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the\ngenus Pimenta :', '', ''], ['', '0904.21', '- - Dried, neither crushed nor ground :', '', ''], ['853', '0904.21.10', '- - - Chillies (Fruits of the genus\nCapsicum)', '5%', 'E20'], ['854', '0904.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '0904.22', '- - Crushed or ground :', '', ''], ['855', '0904.22.10', '- - - Chillies (Fruits of the genus\nCapsicum)', '5%', 'E15'], ['856', '0904.22.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '09.05', 'Vanilla.', '', ''], ['857', '0905.10.00', '- Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['858', '0905.20.00', '- Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.06', 'Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Neither crushed nor ground :', '', ''], ['859', '0906.11.00', '- - Cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum\nBlume)', '0%', 'E0'], ['860', '0906.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['861', '0906.20.00', '- Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.07', 'Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems).', '', ''], ['862', '0907.10.00', '- Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['863', '0907.20.00', '- Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.08', 'Nutmeg, mace and cardamoms.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Nutmeg :', '', ''], ['864', '0908.11.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['865', '0908.12.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mace :', '', ''], ['866', '0908.21.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['867', '0908.22.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cardamoms :', '', ''], ['868', '0908.31.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['869', '0908.32.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.09', 'Seeds of anise, badian, fennel,\ncoriander, cumin or caraway; juniper\nberries.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Seeds of coriander :', '', ''], ['870', '0909.21.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['871', '0909.22.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Seeds of cumin :', '', ''], ['872', '0909.31.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['873', '0909.32.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Seeds of anise, badian, caraway or\nfennel; juniper berries :', '', ''], ['', '0909.61', '- - Neither crushed nor ground :', '', ''], ['874', '0909.61.10', '- - - Of anise', '0%', 'E0'], ['875', '0909.61.20', '- - - Of badian', '0%', 'E0'], ['876', '0909.61.30', '- - - Of caraway', '0%', 'E0'], ['877', '0909.61.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0909.62', '- - Crushed or ground :', '', ''], ['878', '0909.62.10', '- - - Of anise', '0%', 'E0'], ['879', '0909.62.20', '- - - Of badian', '0%', 'E0'], ['880', '0909.62.30', '- - - Of caraway', '0%', 'E0'], ['881', '0909.62.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '09.10', 'Ginger, saffron, turmeric (curcuma),\nthyme, bay leaves, curry and other\nspices.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Ginger :', '', ''], ['882', '0910.11.00', '- - Neither crushed nor ground', '5%', 'E15'], ['883', '0910.12.00', '- - Crushed or ground', '5%', 'E10'], ['884', '0910.20.00', '- Saffron', '0%', 'E0'], ['885', '0910.30.00', '- Turmeric (curcuma)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other spices :', '', ''], ['', '0910.91', '- - Mixtures referred to in Note 1(b) to\nthis Chapter :', '', ''], ['886', '0910.91.10', '- - - Curry', '0%', 'E0'], ['887', '0910.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '0910.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['888', '0910.99.10', '- - - Thyme; bay leaves', '0%', 'E0'], ['889', '0910.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.01', 'Wheat and meslin.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Durum wheat :', '', ''], ['890', '1001.11.00', '- - Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['891', '1001.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['892', '1001.91.00', '- - Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1001.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fit for human consumption :', '', ''], ['893', '1001.99.11', '- - - - Meslin', '0%', 'E0'], ['894', '1001.99.12', '- - - - Wheat grain without husk', '0%', 'E0'], ['895', '1001.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['896', '1001.99.91', '- - - - Meslin', '0%', 'E0'], ['897', '1001.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.02', 'Rye.', '', ''], ['898', '1002.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['899', '1002.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.03', 'Barley.', '', ''], ['900', '1003.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['901', '1003.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.04', 'Oats.', '', ''], ['902', '1004.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['903', '1004.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.05', 'Maize (corn).', '', ''], ['904', '1005.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1005.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['905', '1005.90.10', '- - Popcorn', '5%', 'E10'], ['906', '1005.90.90', '- - Other', '3%', 'EX'], ['', '10.06', 'Rice.', '', ''], ['', '1006.10', '- Rice in the husk (paddy or rough) :', '', ''], ['907', '1006.10.10', '- - Suitable for sowing', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['908', '1006.10.90', '- - Other', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '1006.20', '- Husked (brown) rice :', '', ''], ['909', '1006.20.10', '- - Hom Mali rice', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['910', '1006.20.90', '- - Other', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '1006.30', '- Semi-milled or wholly milled rice,\nwhether or not polished or glazed :', '', ''], ['911', '1006.30.30', '- - Glutinous rice', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['912', '1006.30.40', '- - Hom Mali rice', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['913', '1006.30.91', '- - - Parboiled rice', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['914', '1006.30.99', '- - - Other', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '1006.40', '- Broken rice :', '', ''], ['915', '1006.40.10', '- - Of a kind used for animal feed', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['916', '1006.40.90', '- - Other', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '10.07', 'Grain sorghum.', '', ''], ['917', '1007.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['918', '1007.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '10.08', 'Buckwheat, millet and canary seeds;\nother cereals.', '', ''], ['919', '1008.10.00', '- Buckwheat', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Millet :', '', ''], ['920', '1008.21.00', '- - Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['921', '1008.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['922', '1008.30.00', '- Canary seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['923', '1008.40.00', '- Fonio (Digitaria spp.)', '5%', 'E0'], ['924', '1008.50.00', '- Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa)', '5%', 'E0'], ['925', '1008.60.00', '- Triticale', '5%', 'E0'], ['926', '1008.90.00', '- Other cereals', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '11.01', 'Wheat or meslin flour.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Wheat flour :', '', ''], ['927', '1101.00.11', '- - Fortified', '0%', 'E0'], ['928', '1101.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['929', '1101.00.20', '- Meslin flour', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '11.02', 'Cereal flours other than of wheat or\nmeslin.', '', ''], ['930', '1102.20.00', '- Maize (corn) flour', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1102.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['931', '1102.90.10', '- - Rice flour', 'Rp\n450/Kg', 'EX'], ['932', '1102.90.20', '- - Rye flour', '0%', 'E0'], ['933', '1102.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '11.03', 'Cereal groats, meal and pellets.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Groats and meal :', '', ''], ['934', '1103.11.00', '- - Of wheat', '5%', 'EX'], ['935', '1103.13.00', '- - Of maize (corn)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '1103.19', '- - Of other cereals :', '', ''], ['936', '1103.19.10', '- - - Of meslin', '0%', 'E0'], ['937', '1103.19.20', '- - - Of rice', '5%', 'EX'], ['938', '1103.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['939', '1103.20.00', '- Pellets', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '11.04', 'Cereal grains otherwise worked (for\nexample, hulled, rolled, flaked, pearled,\nsliced or kibbled), except rice of\nheading 10.06; germ of cereals, whole,\nrolled, flaked or ground.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Rolled or flaked grains :', '', ''], ['940', '1104.12.00', '- - Of oats', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '1104.19', '- - Of other cereals :', '', ''], ['941', '1104.19.10', '- - - Of maize (corn)', '5%', 'E10'], ['942', '1104.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Other worked grains (for example,\nhulled, pearled, sliced or kibbled) :', '', ''], ['943', '1104.22.00', '- - Of oats', '5%', 'E0'], ['944', '1104.23.00', '- - Of maize (corn)', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '1104.29', '- - Of other cereals :', '', ''], ['945', '1104.29.20', '- - - Of barley', '5%', 'E0'], ['946', '1104.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['947', '1104.30.00', '- Germ of cereals, whole, rolled, flaked or\nground', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '11.05', 'Flour, meal, powder, flakes, granules\nand pellets of potatoes.', '', ''], ['948', '1105.10.00', '- Flour, meal and powder', '5%', 'E0'], ['949', '1105.20.00', '- Flakes, granules and pellets', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '11.06', 'Flour, meal and powder of the dried\nleguminous vegetables of heading 07.13,\nof sago or of roots or tubers of heading\n07.14 or of the products of Chapter 8.', '', ''], ['950', '1106.10.00', '- Of the dried leguminous vegetables of\nheading 07.13', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1106.20', '- Of sago or of roots or tubers of heading\n07.14 :', '', ''], ['951', '1106.20.10', '- - Of manioc (cassava)', '5%', 'EX'], ['952', '1106.20.20', '- - Of sago', '5%', 'E0'], ['953', '1106.20.30', '- - Of sweet potato (Ipomoea Batatas)', '5%', 'E0'], ['954', '1106.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['955', '1106.30.00', '- Of the products of Chapter 8', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '11.07', 'Malt, whether or not roasted.', '', ''], ['956', '1107.10.00', '- Not roasted', '5%', 'E0'], ['957', '1107.20.00', '- Roasted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '11.08', 'Starches; inulin.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Starches :', '', ''], ['958', '1108.11.00', '- - Wheat starch', '5%', 'E0'], ['959', '1108.12.00', '- - Maize (corn) starch', '10%', 'EX'], ['960', '1108.13.00', '- - Potato starch', '5%', 'E10'], ['961', '1108.14.00', '- - Manioc (cassava) starch', '10%', 'E20'], ['', '1108.19', '- - Other starches :', '', ''], ['962', '1108.19.10', '- - - Sago', '5%', 'E7'], ['963', '1108.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['964', '1108.20.00', '- Inulin', '5%', 'E0'], ['965', '1109.00.00', 'Wheat gluten, whether or not dried.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.01', 'Soya beans, whether or not broken.', '', ''], ['966', '1201.10.00', '- Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['967', '1201.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'EX'], ['', '12.02', 'Ground-nuts, not roasted or otherwise\ncooked, whether or not shelled or\nbroken.', '', ''], ['968', '1202.30.00', '- Seed', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['969', '1202.41.00', '- - In shell', '5%', 'E10'], ['970', '1202.42.00', '- - Shelled, whether or not broken', '5%', 'E10'], ['971', '1203.00.00', 'Copra.', '0%', 'E0'], ['972', '1204.00.00', 'Linseed, whether or not broken.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.05', 'Rape or colza seeds, whether or not\nbroken.', '', ''], ['973', '1205.10.00', '- Low erucic acid rape or colza seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['974', '1205.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['975', '1206.00.00', 'Sunflower seeds, whether or not\nbroken.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.07', 'Other oil seeds and oleaginous fruits,\nwhether or not broken.', '', ''], ['', '1207.10', '- Palm nuts and kernels :', '', ''], ['976', '1207.10.10', '- - Palm nuts suitable for sowing/planting', '0%', 'E0'], ['977', '1207.10.30', '- - Kernels', '0%', 'E0'], ['978', '1207.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cotton seeds :', '', ''], ['979', '1207.21.00', '- - Seed', '0%', 'E0'], ['980', '1207.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['981', '1207.30.00', '- Castor oil seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1207.40', '- Sesamum seeds :', '', ''], ['982', '1207.40.10', '- - Edible', '5%', 'E0'], ['983', '1207.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['984', '1207.50.00', '- Mustard seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['985', '1207.60.00', '- Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['986', '1207.70.00', '- Melon seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['987', '1207.91.00', '- - Poppy seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1207.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['988', '1207.99.40', '- - - Illipe seeds (Illipe nuts)', '0%', 'E0'], ['989', '1207.99.50', '- - - Fresh fruit bunch of oil palm', '5%', 'E0'], ['990', '1207.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '12.08', 'Flours and meals of oil seeds or\noleaginous fruits, other than those of\nmustard.', '', ''], ['991', '1208.10.00', '- Of soya beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['992', '1208.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.09', 'Seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used\nfor sowing.', '', ''], ['993', '1209.10.00', '- Sugar beet seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Seeds of forage plants :', '', ''], ['994', '1209.21.00', '- - Lucerne (alfalfa) seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['995', '1209.22.00', '- - Clover (Trifolium spp.) seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['996', '1209.23.00', '- - Fescue seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['997', '1209.24.00', '- - Kentucky blue grass (Poa pratensis L.)\nseeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['998', '1209.25.00', '- - Rye grass (Lolium multiflorum Lam.,\nLolium perenne L.) seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1209.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['999', '1209.29.10', '- - - Timothy grass (Phleum pratense)\nseeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1000', '1209.29.20', '- - - Other beet seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1001', '1209.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1002', '1209.30.00', '- Seeds of herbaceous plants cultivated\nprincipally for their flowers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '1209.91', '- - Vegetable seeds :', '', ''], ['1003', '1209.91.10', '- - - Onion seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1004', '1209.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1209.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1005', '1209.99.10', '- - - Rubber tree seeds; Kenaf seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1006', '1209.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.10', 'Hop cones, fresh or dried, whether or\nnot ground, powdered or in the form of\npellets; lupulin.', '', ''], ['1007', '1210.10.00', '- Hop cones, neither ground nor powdered\nnor in the form of pellets', '0%', 'E0'], ['1008', '1210.20.00', '- Hop cones, ground, powdered or in the\nform of pellets; lupulin', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.11', 'Plants and parts of plants (including\nseeds and fruits), of a kind used\nprimarily in perfumery, in pharmacy\nor for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar\npurposes, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried,\nwhether or not cut, crushed or\npowdered.', '', ''], ['1009', '1211.20.00', '- Ginseng roots', '5%', 'EX'], ['1010', '1211.30.00', '- Coca leaf', '0%', 'E0'], ['1011', '1211.40.00', '- Poppy straw', '0%', 'E0'], ['1012', '1211.50.00', '- Ephedra', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1211.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used primarily in pharmacy :', '', ''], ['1013', '1211.90.11', '- - - Cannabis, in cut, crushed or\npowdered form', '5%', 'EX'], ['1014', '1211.90.12', '- - - Cannabis, in other forms', '5%', 'EX'], ['1015', '1211.90.13', '- - - Rauwolfia serpentina roots', '5%', 'EX'], ['1016', '1211.90.15', '- - - Liquorice roots', '5%', 'EX'], ['1017', '1211.90.16', '- - - Other, in cut, crushed or powdered\nform', '5%', 'EX'], ['1018', '1211.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1019', '1211.90.91', '- - - Pyrethrum, in cut, crushed or\npowdered form', '5%', 'EX'], ['1020', '1211.90.92', '- - - Pyrethrum, in other forms', '5%', 'EX'], ['1021', '1211.90.94', '- - - Sandalwood chips', '5%', 'EX'], ['1022', '1211.90.95', '- - - Agarwood (Gaharu) chips', '5%', 'EX'], ['1023', '1211.90.97', '- - - Bark of persea (Persea Kurzii\nKosterm)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1024', '1211.90.98', '- - - Other, in cut, crushed or powdered\nform', '5%', 'EX'], ['1025', '1211.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '12.12', 'Locust beans, seaweeds and other\nalgae, sugar beet and sugar cane, fresh,\nchilled, frozen or dried, whether or not\nground; fruit stones and kernels and\nother vegetable products (including\nunroasted chicory roots of the variety\nCichorium intybus sativum) of a kind\nused primarily for human\nconsumption, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Seaweeds and other algae :', '', ''], ['', '1212.21', '- - Fit for human consumption :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Dried but not ground :', '', ''], ['1026', '1212.21.11', '- - - - Eucheuma spinosum', '0%', 'E0'], ['1027', '1212.21.12', '- - - - Eucheuma cottonii', '0%', 'E0'], ['1028', '1212.21.13', '- - - - Gracilaria spp.', '5%', 'E0'], ['1029', '1212.21.14', '- - - - Gelidium spp.', '5%', 'E0'], ['1030', '1212.21.15', '- - - - Sargassum spp.', '5%', 'E0'], ['1031', '1212.21.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['1032', '1212.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '1212.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fresh, chilled or dried, of a kind used\nin dyeing, tanning, perfumery, pharmacy,\nor for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar\npurposes :', '', ''], ['1033', '1212.29.11', '- - - - Of a kind used in pharmacy', '0%', 'E0'], ['1034', '1212.29.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['1035', '1212.29.20', '- - - Other, fresh, chilled or dried', '5%', 'E10'], ['1036', '1212.29.30', '- - - Other, frozen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1037', '1212.91.00', '- - Sugar beet', '0%', 'E0'], ['1038', '1212.92.00', '- - Locust beans (carob)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1212.93', '- - Sugar cane :', '', ''], ['1039', '1212.93.10', '- - - Suitable for planting', '0%', 'E0'], ['1040', '1212.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1041', '1212.94.00', '- - Chicory roots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1212.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1042', '1212.99.10', '- - - Stones and kernels of apricot, peach\n(including nectarine) or plum', '0%', 'E0'], ['1043', '1212.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1044', '1213.00.00', 'Cereal straw and husks, unprepared,\nwhether or not chopped, ground,\npressed or in the form of pellets.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '12.14', 'Swedes, mangolds, fodder roots, hay,\nlucerne (alfalfa), clover, sainfoin, forage\nkale, lupines, vetches and similar\nforage products, whether or not in the\nform of pellets.', '', ''], ['1045', '1214.10.00', '- Lucerne (alfalfa) meal and pellets', '0%', 'E0'], ['1046', '1214.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '13.01', 'Lac; natural gums, resins, gum-resins\nand oleoresins (for example, balsams).', '', ''], ['1047', '1301.20.00', '- Gum Arabic', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1301.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1048', '1301.90.30', '- - Cannabis resins', '3%', 'E0'], ['1049', '1301.90.40', '- - Lac', '0%', 'E0'], ['1050', '1301.90.90', '- - Other', '3%', 'E0'], ['', '13.02', 'Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic\nsubstances, pectinates and pectates;\nagar-agar and other mucilages and\nthickeners, whether or not modified,\nderived from vegetable products.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Vegetable saps and extracts :', '', ''], ['', '1302.11', '- - Opium :', '', ''], ['1051', '1302.11.10', '- - - Pulvis opii', '0%', 'E0'], ['1052', '1302.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1053', '1302.12.00', '- - Of liquorice', '0%', 'E0'], ['1054', '1302.13.00', '- - Of hops', '0%', 'E0'], ['1055', '1302.14.00', '- - Of ephedra', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '1302.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1056', '1302.19.20', '- - - Extracts and tinctures of cannabis', '0%', 'E0'], ['1057', '1302.19.40', '- - - Vegetable saps and extracts of\npyrethrum or of the roots of plants\ncontaining rotenone', '0%', 'E0'], ['1058', '1302.19.50', '- - - Japan (or Chinese) lacquer (natural\nlacquer)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1059', '1302.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['1060', '1302.20.00', '- Pectic substances, pectinates and\npectates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mucilages and thickeners, whether or\nnot modified, derived from vegetable\nproducts :', '', ''], ['1061', '1302.31.00', '- - Agar-agar', '3%', 'EX'], ['1062', '1302.32.00', '- - Mucilages and thickeners, whether or\nnot modified, derived from locust beans,\nlocust bean seeds or guar seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1302.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Carrageenan :', '', ''], ['1063', '1302.39.11', '- - - - Powder, Semi-refined', '5%', 'EX'], ['1064', '1302.39.12', '- - - - Powder, Refined', '5%', 'EX'], ['1065', '1302.39.13', '- - - - Alkali treated carrageenan chips\n(ATCC)', '5%', 'EX'], ['1066', '1302.39.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1067', '1302.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '14.01', 'Vegetable materials of a kind used\nprimarily for plaiting (for example,\nbamboos, rattans, reeds, rushes, osier,\nraffia, cleaned, bleached or dyed cereal\nstraw, and lime bark).', '', ''], ['1068', '1401.10.00', '- Bamboos', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '1401.20', '- Rattans :', '', ''], ['1069', '1401.20.10', '- - Whole', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Split-core :', '', ''], ['1070', '1401.20.21', '- - - Not exceeding 12 mm in diameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1071', '1401.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1072', '1401.20.30', '- - Split-skin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1073', '1401.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1074', '1401.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '14.04', 'Vegetable products not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['1075', '1404.20.00', '- Cotton linters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1404.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1076', '1404.90.20', '- - Of a kind used primarily in tanning or\ndyeing', '0%', 'E0'], ['1077', '1404.90.30', '- - Kapok', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1078', '1404.90.91', '- - - Palm kernel shells', '0%', 'E0'], ['1079', '1404.90.92', '- - - Empty fruit bunch of oil palm', '0%', 'E0'], ['1080', '1404.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.01', 'Pig fat (including lard) and poultry fat,\nother than that of heading 02.09 or\n15.03.', '', ''], ['1081', '1501.10.00', '- Lard', '0%', 'E0'], ['1082', '1501.20.00', '- Other pig fat', '0%', 'E0'], ['1083', '1501.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.02', 'Fats of bovine animals, sheep or goats,\nother than those of heading 15.03.', '', ''], ['1084', '1502.10.00', '- Tallow', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1502.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1085', '1502.90.10', '- - Edible', '0%', 'E0'], ['1086', '1502.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.03', 'Lard stearin, lard oil, oleostearin, oleo-\noil and tallow oil, not emulsified or\nmixed or otherwise prepared.', '', ''], ['1087', '1503.00.10', '- Lard stearin or oleostearin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1088', '1503.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.04', 'Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish\nor marine mammals, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically modified.', '', ''], ['', '1504.10', '- Fish-liver oils and their fractions :', '', ''], ['1089', '1504.10.20', '- - Solid fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1090', '1504.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1504.20', '- Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish,\nother than liver oils :', '', ''], ['1091', '1504.20.10', '- - Solid fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1092', '1504.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1093', '1504.30.00', '- Fats and oils and their fractions, of\nmarine mammals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.05', 'Wool grease and fatty substances\nderived therefrom (including lanolin).', '', ''], ['1094', '1505.00.10', '- Lanolin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1095', '1505.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1096', '1506.00.00', 'Other animal fats and oils and their\nfractions, whether or not refined, but\nnot chemically modified.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.07', 'Soya-bean oil and its fractions, whether\nor not refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', ''], ['1097', '1507.10.00', '- Crude oil, whether or not degummed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1507.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1098', '1507.90.10', '- - Fractions of unrefined soya-bean oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1099', '1507.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.08', 'Ground-nut oil and its fractions,\nwhether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', '', ''], ['1100', '1508.10.00', '- Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1101', '1508.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.09', 'Olive oil and its fractions, whether or\nnot refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', ''], ['', '1509.10', '- Virgin :', '', ''], ['1102', '1509.10.10', '- - In packings of a net weight not\nexceeding 30 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1103', '1509.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1509.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Fractions of unrefined oil :', '', ''], ['1104', '1509.90.11', '- - - In packings of a net weight not\nexceeding 30 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1105', '1509.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1106', '1509.90.91', '- - - In packings of a net weight not\nexceeding 30 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1107', '1509.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.10', 'Other oils and their fractions, obtained\nsolely from olives, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically modified,\nincluding blends of these oils or\nfractions with oils or fractions of\nheading 15.09.', '', ''], ['1108', '1510.00.10', '- Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1109', '1510.00.20', '- Fractions of unrefined oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1110', '1510.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.11', 'Palm oil and its fractions, whether or\nnot refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', ''], ['1111', '1511.10.00', '- Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1511.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1112', '1511.90.20', '- - Refined oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Fractions of refined oil :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Solid fractions :', '', ''], ['1113', '1511.90.31', '- - - - With iodine value 30 or more, but\nless than 40', '0%', 'E0'], ['1114', '1511.90.32', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Liquid fractions :', '', ''], ['1115', '1511.90.36', '- - - - In packing of a net weight not\nexceeding 25 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1116', '1511.90.37', '- - - - Other, with iodine value 55 or more\nbut less than 60', '0%', 'E0'], ['1117', '1511.90.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Fractions of unrefined oil :', '', ''], ['1118', '1511.90.41', '- - - Solid fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1119', '1511.90.42', '- - - Other, with packing of a net weight\nnot exceeding 25 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1120', '1511.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.12', 'Sunflower-seed, safflower or cotton-\nseed oil and fractions thereof, whether\nor not refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sunflower-seed or safflower oil and\nfractions thereof :', '', ''], ['1121', '1512.11.00', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1512.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1122', '1512.19.10', '- - - Fractions of unrefined sunflower-seed\noil or safflower oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1123', '1512.19.20', '- - - Refined', '0%', 'E0'], ['1124', '1512.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cotton-seed oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1125', '1512.21.00', '- - Crude oil, whether or not gossypol has\nbeen removed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1512.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1126', '1512.29.10', '- - - Fractions of unrefined cotton-seed oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1127', '1512.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.13', 'Coconut (copra), palm kernel or\nbabassu oil and fractions thereof,\nwhether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Coconut (copra) oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1128', '1513.11.00', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1513.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1129', '1513.19.10', '- - - Fractions of unrefined coconut oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1130', '1513.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Palm kernel or babassu oil and fractions\nthereof :', '', ''], ['', '1513.21', '- - Crude oil :', '', ''], ['1131', '1513.21.10', '- - - Palm kernel oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1132', '1513.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1513.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fractions of unrefined palm kernel oil\nor of unrefined babassu oil :', '', ''], ['1133', '1513.29.11', '- - - - Solid fractions of unrefined palm\nkernel oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1134', '1513.29.12', '- - - - Solid fractions of unrefined babassu\noil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1135', '1513.29.13', '- - - - Other, of unrefined palm kernel oil\n(palm kernel olein)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1136', '1513.29.14', '- - - - Other, of unrefined babassu oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1137', '1513.29.91', '- - - - Solid fractions of palm kernel oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1138', '1513.29.92', '- - - - Solid fractions of babassu oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1139', '1513.29.94', '- - - - Palm kernel olein, refined, bleached\nand deodorized (RBD)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1140', '1513.29.95', '- - - - Palm kernel oil, RBD', '0%', 'E0'], ['1141', '1513.29.96', '- - - - Other, palm kernel oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1142', '1513.29.97', '- - - - Other, of babassu oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.14', 'Rape, colza or mustard oil and\nfractions thereof, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically modified.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Low erucic acid rape or colza oil and its\nfractions :', '', ''], ['1143', '1514.11.00', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1514.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1144', '1514.19.10', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1145', '1514.19.20', '- - - Refined', '5%', 'E0'], ['1146', '1514.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '1514.91', '- - Crude oil :', '', ''], ['1147', '1514.91.10', '- - - Other rape or colza oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1148', '1514.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1514.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1149', '1514.99.10', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1150', '1514.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '15.15', 'Other fixed vegetable fats and oils\n(including jojoba oil) and their\nfractions, whether or not refined, but\nnot chemically modified.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Linseed oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1151', '1515.11.00', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1152', '1515.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Maize (corn) oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1153', '1515.21.00', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1515.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil :', '', ''], ['1154', '1515.29.11', '- - - - Solid fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1155', '1515.29.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1156', '1515.29.91', '- - - - Solid fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1157', '1515.29.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1515.30', '- Castor oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1158', '1515.30.10', '- - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1159', '1515.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1515.50', '- Sesame oil and its fractions :', '', ''], ['1160', '1515.50.10', '- - Crude oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1161', '1515.50.20', '- - Fractions of unrefined oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1162', '1515.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '1515.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Illipe nut oil :', '', ''], ['1163', '1515.90.11', '- - - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1164', '1515.90.12', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1165', '1515.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Tung oil :', '', ''], ['1166', '1515.90.21', '- - - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1167', '1515.90.22', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1168', '1515.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Jojoba oil :', '', ''], ['1169', '1515.90.31', '- - - Crude oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1170', '1515.90.32', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1171', '1515.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1172', '1515.90.91', '- - - Crude oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1173', '1515.90.92', '- - - Fractions of unrefined oil', '5%', 'E0'], ['1174', '1515.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '15.16', 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils and\ntheir fractions, partly or wholly\nhydrogenated, inter-esterified, re-\nesterified or elaidinised, whether or not\nrefined, but not further prepared.', '', ''], ['', '1516.10', '- Animal fats and oils and their fractions :', '', ''], ['1175', '1516.10.20', '- - Re-esterified', '0%', 'E0'], ['1176', '1516.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1516.20', '- Vegetable fats and oils and their\nfractions :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Re-esterified :', '', ''], ['1177', '1516.20.11', '- - - Of soya beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['1178', '1516.20.12', '- - - Of fruit of the oil palm, crude', '0%', 'E0'], ['1179', '1516.20.13', '- - - Of fruit of the oil palm, other than\ncrude', '0%', 'E0'], ['1180', '1516.20.14', '- - - Of coconuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['1181', '1516.20.15', '- - - Of palm kernels, crude', '0%', 'E0'], ['1182', '1516.20.16', '- - - Of palm kernels, refined, bleached\nand deodorized (RBD)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1183', '1516.20.17', '- - - Of ground-nuts', '5%', 'E0'], ['1184', '1516.20.18', '- - - Of linseed', '5%', 'E0'], ['1185', '1516.20.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Hydrogenated, in flakes :', '', ''], ['1186', '1516.20.31', '- - - Of ground-nuts; of coconuts; of soya\nbeans', '5%', 'E0'], ['1187', '1516.20.32', '- - - Of linseed', '5%', 'E0'], ['1188', '1516.20.33', '- - - Of olives', '5%', 'E0'], ['1189', '1516.20.34', '- - - Of fruit of the oil palm', '0%', 'E0'], ['1190', '1516.20.35', '- - - Of palm kernels', '0%', 'E0'], ['1191', '1516.20.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Hydrogenated, in other forms :', '', ''], ['1192', '1516.20.41', '- - - Of castor seeds (Opal wax)', '5%', 'E0'], ['1193', '1516.20.42', '- - - Of coconuts', '5%', 'E0'], ['1194', '1516.20.43', '- - - Of ground-nuts', '5%', 'E0'], ['1195', '1516.20.44', '- - - Of linseed', '5%', 'E0'], ['1196', '1516.20.45', '- - - Of olives', '5%', 'E0'], ['1197', '1516.20.46', '- - - Of fruit of the oil palm', '5%', 'E0'], ['1198', '1516.20.47', '- - - Of palm kernels', '5%', 'EX'], ['1199', '1516.20.48', '- - - Of soya beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['1200', '1516.20.49', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Inter-esterified :', '', ''], ['1201', '1516.20.51', '- - - Of linseed', '5%', 'E0'], ['1202', '1516.20.52', '- - - Of olives', '5%', 'E0'], ['1203', '1516.20.53', '- - - Of soya beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['1204', '1516.20.54', '- - - Of ground-nuts, of oil palm or\ncoconuts', '5%', 'E0'], ['1205', '1516.20.59', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other, palm stearin, with an iodine\nvalue not exceeding 48 :', '', ''], ['1206', '1516.20.61', '- - - Crude', '0%', 'E0'], ['1207', '1516.20.62', '- - - Refined, bleached and deodorised\n(RBD)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1208', '1516.20.69', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1209', '1516.20.91', '- - - Palm stearin, with an iodine value\nexceeding 48', '5%', 'EX'], ['1210', '1516.20.92', '- - - Of linseed', '5%', 'E0'], ['1211', '1516.20.93', '- - - Of olives', '5%', 'E0'], ['1212', '1516.20.94', '- - - Of soya beans', '0%', 'E0'], ['1213', '1516.20.96', '- - - Refined, bleached and deodorised\n(RBD) palm kernel stearin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1214', '1516.20.98', '- - - Of ground-nuts, of oil palm or of\ncoconuts', '5%', 'E0'], ['1215', '1516.20.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '15.17', 'Margarine; edible mixtures or\npreparations of animal or vegetable fats\nor oils or of fractions of different fats or\noils of this Chapter, other than edible\nfats or oils or their fractions of heading\n15.16.', '', ''], ['', '1517.10', '- Margarine, excluding liquid margarine :', '', ''], ['1216', '1517.10.10', '- - In airtight container for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1217', '1517.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1517.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1218', '1517.90.10', '- - Imitation ghee', '0%', 'E0'], ['1219', '1517.90.20', '- - Liquid margarine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1220', '1517.90.30', '- - Of a kind used as mould release\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Imitation lard; shortening :', '', ''], ['1221', '1517.90.43', '- - - Shortening', '0%', 'E0'], ['1222', '1517.90.44', '- - - Imitation lard', '0%', 'E0'], ['1223', '1517.90.50', '- - Other solid mixtures or preparations of\nvegetable fats or oils or of their fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other liquid mixtures or preparations\nof vegetable fats or oils or of their\nfractions :', '', ''], ['1224', '1517.90.61', '- - - In which ground-nut oil predominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1225', '1517.90.62', '- - - In which crude palm oil predominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1226', '1517.90.63', '- - - In which other palm oil\npredominates, in packings of a net weight\nnot exceeding 25 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1227', '1517.90.64', '- - - In which other palm oil\npredominates, in packings of a net weight\nexceeding 25 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['1228', '1517.90.65', '- - - In which palm kernel oil\npredominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1229', '1517.90.66', '- - - In which palm kernel olein\npredominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1230', '1517.90.67', '- - - In which either soya-bean oil or\ncoconut oil predominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1231', '1517.90.68', '- - - In which illipe nut oil predominates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1232', '1517.90.69', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1233', '1517.90.80', '- - Of mixtures or preparations of animal\nfats or oils or of their fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1234', '1517.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.18', 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils and\ntheir fractions, boiled, oxidised,\ndehydrated, sulphurised, blown,\npolymerised by heat in vacuum or in\ninert gas or otherwise chemically\nmodified, excluding those of heading\n15.16; inedible mixtures or\npreparations of animal or vegetable fats\nor oils or of fractions of different fats or\noils of this Chapter, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Animal or vegetable fats and oils and\ntheir fractions, boiled, oxidised,\ndehydrated, sulphurised, blown,\npolymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert\ngas or otherwise chemically modified\nexcluding those of heading 15.16 :', '', ''], ['1235', '1518.00.12', '- - Animal fats and oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['1236', '1518.00.14', '- - Ground-nut, soya-bean, palm or\ncoconut oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['1237', '1518.00.15', '- - Linseed oil and its fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1238', '1518.00.16', '- - Olive oil and its fractions', '0%', 'E0'], ['1239', '1518.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1240', '1518.00.20', '- Inedible mixtures or preparations of\nanimal fats or oils or of fractions of\ndifferent fats or oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Inedible mixtures or preparations of\nvegetable fats or oils or of fractions of\ndifferent fats or oils :', '', ''], ['1241', '1518.00.31', '- - Of the fruit of the oil palm or of palm\nkernels', '0%', 'E0'], ['1242', '1518.00.33', '- - Of linseed', '0%', 'E0'], ['1243', '1518.00.34', '- - Of olives', '0%', 'E0'], ['1244', '1518.00.35', '- - Of ground-nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['1245', '1518.00.36', '- - Of soya beans or coconuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['1246', '1518.00.37', '- - Of cotton seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1247', '1518.00.39', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1248', '1518.00.60', '- Inedible mixtures or preparations of\nanimal fats or oils or of fractions thereof\nand vegetable fats or oils or fractions\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.20', 'Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and\nglycerol lyes.', '', ''], ['1249', '1520.00.10', '- Crude glycerol', '0%', 'E0'], ['1250', '1520.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.21', 'Vegetable waxes (other than\ntriglycerides), beeswax, other insect\nwaxes and spermaceti, whether or not\nrefined or coloured.', '', ''], ['1251', '1521.10.00', '- Vegetable waxes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1521.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1252', '1521.90.10', '- - Beeswax and other insect waxes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1253', '1521.90.20', '- - Spermaceti', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '15.22', 'Degras; residues resulting from the\ntreatment of fatty substances or animal\nor vegetable waxes.', '', ''], ['1254', '1522.00.10', '- Degras', '0%', 'E0'], ['1255', '1522.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '16.01', 'Sausages and similar products, of meat,\nmeat offal or blood; food preparations\nbased on these products.', '', ''], ['1256', '1601.00.10', '- In airtight containers for retail sale', '30%', 'EX'], ['1257', '1601.00.90', '- Other', '30%', 'EX'], ['', '16.02', 'Other prepared or preserved meat,\nmeat offal or blood.', '', ''], ['', '1602.10', '- Homogenised preparations :', '', ''], ['1258', '1602.10.10', '- - Containing pork, in airtight containers\nfor retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1259', '1602.10.90', '- - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['1260', '1602.20.00', '- Of liver of any animal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of poultry of heading 01.05 :', '', ''], ['', '1602.31', '- - Of turkeys :', '', ''], ['1261', '1602.31.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1262', '1602.31.91', '- - - - Of mechanically deboned or\nseparated meat', '0%', 'E0'], ['1263', '1602.31.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1602.32', '- - Of fowls of the species Gallus\ndomesticus :', '', ''], ['1264', '1602.32.10', '- - - Chicken curry, in airtight containers\nfor retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1265', '1602.32.90', '- - - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['1266', '1602.39.00', '- - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of swine :', '', ''], ['', '1602.41', '- - Hams and cuts thereof :', '', ''], ['1267', '1602.41.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1268', '1602.41.90', '- - - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['', '1602.42', '- - Shoulders and cuts thereof :', '', ''], ['1269', '1602.42.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1270', '1602.42.90', '- - - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['', '1602.49', '- - Other, including mixtures :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Luncheon meat :', '', ''], ['1271', '1602.49.11', '- - - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1272', '1602.49.19', '- - - - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1273', '1602.49.91', '- - - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '30%', 'E0'], ['1274', '1602.49.99', '- - - - Other', '30%', 'E0'], ['1275', '1602.50.00', '- Of bovine animals', '30%', 'EX'], ['', '1602.90', '- Other, including preparations of blood of\nany animal :', '', ''], ['1276', '1602.90.10', '- - Mutton curry, in airtight containers for\nretail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1277', '1602.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1278', '1603.00.00', 'Extracts and juices of meat, fish or\ncrustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic\ninvertebrates.', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '16.04', 'Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and\ncaviar substitutes prepared from fish\neggs.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fish, whole or in pieces, but not\nminced :', '', ''], ['', '1604.11', '- - Salmon :', '', ''], ['1279', '1604.11.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1280', '1604.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.12', '- - Herrings :', '', ''], ['1281', '1604.12.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1282', '1604.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.13', '- - Sardines, sardinella and brisling or\nsprats :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Sardines :', '', ''], ['1283', '1604.13.11', '- - - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '15%', 'EX'], ['1284', '1604.13.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1285', '1604.13.91', '- - - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1286', '1604.13.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.14', '- - Tunas, skipjack and bonito (Sarda\nspp.) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale :', '', ''], ['1287', '1604.14.11', '- - - - Tunas', '20%', 'E10'], ['1288', '1604.14.19', '- - - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['1289', '1604.14.90', '- - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['', '1604.15', '- - Mackerel :', '', ''], ['1290', '1604.15.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1291', '1604.15.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.16', '- - Anchovies :', '', ''], ['1292', '1604.16.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1293', '1604.16.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.17', '- - Eels :', '', ''], ['1294', '1604.17.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1295', '1604.17.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1604.18', '- - Shark fins :', '', ''], ['1296', '1604.18.10', '- - - Ready for immediate consumption', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1297', '1604.18.91', '- - - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '15%', 'EX'], ['1298', '1604.18.99', '- - - - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '1604.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1299', '1604.19.20', '- - - Horse mackerel, in airtight containers\nfor retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1300', '1604.19.30', '- - - Other, in airtight containers for retail\nsale', '15%', 'EX'], ['1301', '1604.19.90', '- - - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '1604.20', '- Other prepared or preserved fish :', '', ''], ['1302', '1604.20.20', '- - Fish sausages', '0%', 'E0'], ['1303', '1604.20.30', '- - Fish ball', '15%', 'EX'], ['1304', '1604.20.40', '- - Fish paste', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1305', '1604.20.91', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '5%', 'EX'], ['1306', '1604.20.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Caviar and caviar substitutes :', '', ''], ['1307', '1604.31.00', '- - Caviar', '0%', 'E0'], ['1308', '1604.32.00', '- - Caviar substitutes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '16.05', 'Crustaceans, molluscs and other\naquatic invertebrates, prepared or\npreserved.', '', ''], ['', '1605.10', '- Crab :', '', ''], ['1309', '1605.10.10', '- - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1310', '1605.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Shrimps and prawns :', '', ''], ['1311', '1605.21.00', '- - Not in airtight container', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '1605.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1312', '1605.29.20', '- - - Shrimp ball', '0%', 'E0'], ['1313', '1605.29.30', '- - - Breaded shrimp', '0%', 'E0'], ['1314', '1605.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1315', '1605.30.00', '- Lobster', '0%', 'E0'], ['1316', '1605.40.00', '- Other crustaceans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Molluscs :', '', ''], ['1317', '1605.51.00', '- - Oysters', '0%', 'E0'], ['1318', '1605.52.00', '- - Scallops, including queen scallops', '5%', 'E0'], ['1319', '1605.53.00', '- - Mussels', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1605.54', '- - Cuttle fish and squid :', '', ''], ['1320', '1605.54.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '5%', 'EX'], ['1321', '1605.54.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1322', '1605.55.00', '- - Octopus', '5%', 'E0'], ['1323', '1605.56.00', '- - Clams, cockles and arkshells', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1605.57', '- - Abalone :', '', ''], ['1324', '1605.57.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1325', '1605.57.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1326', '1605.58.00', '- - Snails, other than sea snails', '5%', 'E0'], ['1327', '1605.59.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other aquatic invertebrates :', '', ''], ['1328', '1605.61.00', '- - Sea cucumbers', '0%', 'E0'], ['1329', '1605.62.00', '- - Sea urchins', '5%', 'E0'], ['1330', '1605.63.00', '- - Jellyfish', '5%', 'E0'], ['1331', '1605.69.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '17.01', 'Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure\nsucrose, in solid form.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Raw sugar not containing added\nflavouring or colouring matter :', '', ''], ['1332', '1701.12.00', '- - Beet sugar', 'Rp\n790/Kg', 'EX'], ['1333', '1701.13.00', '- - Cane sugar specified in Subheading\nNote 2 to this Chapter', 'Rp\n550/Kg', 'EX'], ['1334', '1701.14.00', '- - Other cane sugar', 'Rp\n550/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1335', '1701.91.00', '- - Containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter', 'Rp\n790/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '1701.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1336', '1701.99.10', '- - - Refined sugar', 'Rp\n790/Kg', 'EX'], ['1337', '1701.99.90', '- - - Other', 'Rp\n790/Kg', 'EX'], ['', '17.02', 'Other sugars, including chemically\npure lactose, maltose, glucose and\nfructose, in solid form; sugar syrups\nnot containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter; artificial honey,\nwhether or not mixed with natural\nhoney; caramel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Lactose and lactose syrup :', '', ''], ['1338', '1702.11.00', '- - Containing by weight 99 % or more\nlactose, expressed as anhydrous lactose,\ncalculated on the dry matter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1339', '1702.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1340', '1702.20.00', '- Maple sugar and maple syrup', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1702.30', '- Glucose and glucose syrup, not\ncontaining fructose or containing in the\ndry state less than 20 % by weight of\nfructose :', '', ''], ['1341', '1702.30.10', '- - Glucose', '5%', 'E0'], ['1342', '1702.30.20', '- - Glucose syrup', '0%', 'E0'], ['1343', '1702.40.00', '- Glucose and glucose syrup, containing\nin the dry state at least 20 % but less than\n50 % by weight of fructose, excluding\ninvert sugar', '5%', 'E0'], ['1344', '1702.50.00', '- Chemically pure fructose', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1702.60', '- Other fructose and fructose syrup,\ncontaining in the dry state more than 50 %\nby weight of fructose, excluding invert\nsugar :', '', ''], ['1345', '1702.60.10', '- - Fructose', '5%', 'E0'], ['1346', '1702.60.20', '- - Fructose syrup', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1702.90', '- Other, including invert sugar and other\nsugar and sugar syrup blends containing\nin the dry state 50 % by weight of\nfructose :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Maltose and maltose syrups :', '', ''], ['1347', '1702.90.11', '- - - Chemically pure maltose', '5%', 'E0'], ['1348', '1702.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['1349', '1702.90.20', '- - Artificial honey, whether or not mixed\nwith natural honey', '5%', 'E0'], ['1350', '1702.90.30', '- - Flavoured or coloured sugars\n(excluding maltose)', '5%', 'E0'], ['1351', '1702.90.40', '- - Caramel', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1352', '1702.90.91', '- - - Sugar syrups', '5%', 'E0'], ['1353', '1702.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '17.03', 'Molasses resulting from the extraction\nor refining of sugar.', '', ''], ['', '1703.10', '- Cane molasses :', '', ''], ['1354', '1703.10.10', '- - Containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1355', '1703.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1703.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1356', '1703.90.10', '- - Containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1357', '1703.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '17.04', 'Sugar confectionery (including white\nchocolate), not containing cocoa.', '', ''], ['1358', '1704.10.00', '- Chewing gum, whether or not sugar-\ncoated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1704.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1359', '1704.90.10', '- - Medicated pastilles and drops', '0%', 'E0'], ['1360', '1704.90.20', '- - White chocolate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1361', '1704.90.91', '- - - Soft, containing gelatin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1362', '1704.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1363', '1801.00.00', 'Cocoa beans, whole or broken, raw or\nroasted.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1364', '1802.00.00', 'Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other\ncocoa waste.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '18.03', 'Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted.', '', ''], ['1365', '1803.10.00', '- Not defatted', '0%', 'E0'], ['1366', '1803.20.00', '- Wholly or partly defatted', '0%', 'E0'], ['1367', '1804.00.00', 'Cocoa butter, fat and oil.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1368', '1805.00.00', 'Cocoa powder, not containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '18.06', 'Chocolate and other food preparations\ncontaining cocoa.', '', ''], ['1369', '1806.10.00', '- Cocoa powder, containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1806.20', '- Other preparations in blocks, slabs or\nbars weighing more than 2 kg or in liquid,\npaste, powder, granular or other bulk form\nin containers or immediate packings, of a\ncontent exceeding 2 kg :', '', ''], ['1370', '1806.20.10', '- - Chocolate confectionery in blocks,\nslabs or bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['1371', '1806.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, in blocks, slabs or bars :', '', ''], ['1372', '1806.31.00', '- - Filled', '0%', 'E0'], ['1373', '1806.32.00', '- - Not filled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1806.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1374', '1806.90.10', '- - Chocolate confectionery in tablets or\npastilles', '0%', 'E0'], ['1375', '1806.90.30', '- - Food preparations of flour, meal, starch\nor malt extract, containing 40 % or more\nbut not exceeding 50 % by weight of\ncocoa calculated on a totally defatted\nbasis', '10%', 'E0'], ['1376', '1806.90.40', '- - Food preparations of goods of\nheadings 04.01 to 04.04, containing 5 %\nor more but not exceeding 10 % by\nweight of cocoa calculated on a totally\ndefatted basis, specially prepared for\ninfants or young children, not put up for\nretail sale', '5%', 'E0'], ['1377', '1806.90.90', '- - Other', '15%', 'E0'], ['', '19.01', 'Malt extract; food preparations of\nflour, groats, meal, starch or malt\nextract, not containing cocoa or\ncontaining less than 40 % by weight of\ncocoa calculated on a totally defatted\nbasis, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; food preparations of goods of\nheadings 04.01 to 04.04, not containing\ncocoa or containing less than 5 % by\nweight of cocoa calculated on a totally\ndefatted basis, not elsewhere specified\nor included.', '', ''], ['', '1901.10', '- Preparations suitable for infants or\nyoung children, put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['1378', '1901.10.10', '- - Of malt extract', '0%', 'E0'], ['1379', '1901.10.20', '- - Of goods of headings 04.01 to 04.04', '5%', 'E0'], ['1380', '1901.10.30', '- - Of soya-bean powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1381', '1901.10.91', '- - - Medical foods', '0%', 'E0'], ['1382', '1901.10.92', '- - - Other, for children age over 1 year\nbut not exceeding 3 years', '0%', 'E0'], ['1383', '1901.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1901.20', "- Mixes and doughs for the preparation of\nbakers' wares of heading 19.05 :", '', ''], ['1384', '1901.20.10', '- - Of flour, groats, meal, starch or malt\nextract, not containing cocoa', '10%', 'EX'], ['1385', '1901.20.20', '- - Of flour, groats, meal, starch or malt\nextract, containing cocoa', '10%', 'EX'], ['1386', '1901.20.30', '- - Other, not containing cocoa', '5%', 'EX'], ['1387', '1901.20.40', '- - Other, containing cocoa', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '1901.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Preparations suitable for infants or\nyoung children, not put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['1388', '1901.90.11', '- - - Medical foods', '5%', 'E0'], ['1389', '1901.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['1390', '1901.90.20', '- - Malt extract', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, of goods of headings 04.01 to\n04.04 :', '', ''], ['1391', '1901.90.31', '- - - Filled milk', '5%', 'E0'], ['1392', '1901.90.32', '- - - Other, containing cocoa powder', '5%', 'E0'], ['1393', '1901.90.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other soya-based preparations :', '', ''], ['1394', '1901.90.41', '- - - In powder form', '5%', 'E0'], ['1395', '1901.90.49', '- - - In other forms', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1396', '1901.90.91', '- - - Medical foods', '5%', 'E0'], ['1397', '1901.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '19.02', 'Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed\n(with meat or other substances) or\notherwise prepared, such as spaghetti,\nmacaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi,\nravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether\nor not prepared.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Uncooked pasta, not stuffed or otherwise\nprepared :', '', ''], ['1398', '1902.11.00', '- - Containing eggs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1902.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1399', '1902.19.20', '- - - Rice vermicelli (including bee hoon)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Transparent vermicelli :', '', ''], ['1400', '1902.19.31', '- - - - Of corn', '20%', 'EX'], ['1401', '1902.19.39', '- - - - Other', '20%', 'E7'], ['1402', '1902.19.40', '- - - Other noodles', '5%', 'E0'], ['1403', '1902.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1902.20', '- Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or\notherwise prepared :', '', ''], ['1404', '1902.20.10', '- - Stuffed with meat or meat offal', '0%', 'E0'], ['1405', '1902.20.30', '- - Stuffed with fish, crustaceans or\nmolluscs', '0%', 'E0'], ['1406', '1902.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1902.30', '- Other pasta :', '', ''], ['1407', '1902.30.20', '- - Rice vermicelli (including bee hoon)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1408', '1902.30.30', '- - Transparent vermicelli', '0%', 'E0'], ['1409', '1902.30.40', '- - Other instant noodles', '0%', 'E0'], ['1410', '1902.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1411', '1902.40.00', '- Couscous', '0%', 'E0'], ['1412', '1903.00.00', 'Tapioca and substitutes therefor\nprepared from starch, in the form of\nflakes, grains, pearls, siftings or in\nsimilar forms.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '19.04', 'Prepared foods obtained by the\nswelling or roasting of cereals or cereal\nproducts (for example, corn flakes);\ncereals (other than maize (corn)), in\ngrain form or in the form of flakes or\nother worked grains (except flour,\ngroats and meal), pre-cooked or\notherwise prepared, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['', '1904.10', '- Prepared foods obtained by the swelling\nor roasting of cereals or cereal products :', '', ''], ['1413', '1904.10.10', '- - Containing cocoa', '0%', 'E0'], ['1414', '1904.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '1904.20', '- Prepared foods obtained from unroasted\ncereal flakes or from mixtures of\nunroasted cereal flakes and roasted cereal\nflakes or swelled cereals :', '', ''], ['1415', '1904.20.10', '- - Prepared foods obtained from\nunroasted cereal flakes', '5%', 'E0'], ['1416', '1904.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1417', '1904.30.00', '- Bulgur wheat', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1904.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1418', '1904.90.10', '- - Rice preparations, including pre-\ncooked rice', '10%', 'EX'], ['1419', '1904.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '19.05', "Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other\nbakers' wares, whether or not\ncontaining cocoa; communion wafers,\nempty cachets of a kind suitable for\npharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice\npaper and similar products.", '', ''], ['1420', '1905.10.00', '- Crispbread', '0%', 'E0'], ['1421', '1905.20.00', '- Gingerbread and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Sweet biscuits; waffles and wafers :', '', ''], ['', '1905.31', '- - Sweet biscuits :', '', ''], ['1422', '1905.31.10', '- - - Not containing cocoa', '0%', 'E0'], ['1423', '1905.31.20', '- - - Containing cocoa', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1905.32', '- - Waffles and wafers :', '', ''], ['1424', '1905.32.10', '- - - Waffles', '0%', 'E0'], ['1425', '1905.32.20', '- - - Wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1905.40', '- Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted\nproducts :', '', ''], ['1426', '1905.40.10', '- - Not containing added sugar, honey,\neggs, fats, cheese or fruit', '0%', 'E0'], ['1427', '1905.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '1905.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1428', '1905.90.10', '- - Unsweetened teething biscuits', '0%', 'E0'], ['1429', '1905.90.20', '- - Other Unsweetened biscuits', '0%', 'E0'], ['1430', '1905.90.30', '- - Cakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1431', '1905.90.40', '- - Pastries', '0%', 'E0'], ['1432', '1905.90.50', '- - Flourless bakers’ wares', '0%', 'E0'], ['1433', '1905.90.60', '- - Empty cachets and similar products of\na kind suitable for pharmaceutical use', '0%', 'E0'], ['1434', '1905.90.70', '- - Communion wafers, sealing wafers,\nrice paper and similar products', '5%', 'E0'], ['1435', '1905.90.80', '- - Other crisp savoury food products', '0%', 'E0'], ['1436', '1905.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '20.01', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible\nparts of plants, prepared or preserved\nby vinegar or acetic acid.', '', ''], ['1437', '2001.10.00', '- Cucumbers and gherkins', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2001.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1438', '2001.90.10', '- - Onions', '5%', 'E0'], ['1439', '2001.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '20.02', 'Tomatoes prepared or preserved\notherwise than by vinegar or acetic\nacid.', '', ''], ['1440', '2002.10.00', '- Tomatoes, whole or in pieces', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2002.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1441', '2002.90.10', '- - Tomato paste', '0%', 'E0'], ['1442', '2002.90.20', '- - Tomato powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['1443', '2002.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '20.03', 'Mushrooms and truffles, prepared or\npreserved otherwise than by vinegar or\nacetic acid.', '', ''], ['1444', '2003.10.00', '- Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2003.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1445', '2003.90.10', '- - Truffles', '0%', 'E0'], ['1446', '2003.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '20.04', 'Other vegetables prepared or preserved\notherwise than by vinegar or acetic\nacid, frozen, other than products of\nheading 20.06.', '', ''], ['1447', '2004.10.00', '- Potatoes', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2004.90', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of\nvegetables :', '', ''], ['1448', '2004.90.10', '- - Suitable for infants or young children', '0%', 'E0'], ['1449', '2004.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '20.05', 'Other vegetables prepared or preserved\notherwise than by vinegar or acetic\nacid, not frozen, other than products of\nheading 20.06.', '', ''], ['', '2005.10', '- Homogenised vegetables :', '', ''], ['1450', '2005.10.10', '- - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1451', '2005.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2005.20', '- Potatoes :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Chips and sticks :', '', ''], ['1452', '2005.20.11', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1453', '2005.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1454', '2005.20.91', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1455', '2005.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1456', '2005.40.00', '- Peas (Pisum sativum)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.) :', '', ''], ['1457', '2005.51.00', '- - Beans, shelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2005.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1458', '2005.59.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1459', '2005.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1460', '2005.60.00', '- Asparagus', '0%', 'E0'], ['1461', '2005.70.00', '- Olives', '0%', 'E0'], ['1462', '2005.80.00', '- Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other vegetables and mixtures of\nvegetables :', '', ''], ['1463', '2005.91.00', '- - Bamboo shoots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2005.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1464', '2005.99.10', '- - - In airtight containers for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1465', '2005.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1466', '2006.00.00', 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and\nother parts of plants, preserved by\nsugar (drained, glace or crystallised).', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '20.07', 'Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or\nnut puree and fruit or nut pastes,\nobtained by cooking, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', '', ''], ['1467', '2007.10.00', '- Homogenised preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1468', '2007.91.00', '- - Citrus fruit', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2007.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1469', '2007.99.10', '- - - Fruit pastes other than of mangoes,\npineapples or strawberries', '5%', 'EX'], ['1470', '2007.99.20', '- - - Jams and fruit jellies', '5%', 'EX'], ['1471', '2007.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '20.08', 'Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of\nplants, otherwise prepared or\npreserved, whether or not containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening matter\nor spirit, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Nuts, ground-nuts and other seeds,\nwhether or not mixed together :', '', ''], ['', '2008.11', '- - Ground-nuts :', '', ''], ['1472', '2008.11.10', '- - - Roasted', '5%', 'E0'], ['1473', '2008.11.20', '- - - Peanut butter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1474', '2008.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.19', '- - Other, including mixtures :', '', ''], ['1475', '2008.19.10', '- - - Cashew nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1476', '2008.19.91', '- - - - Roasted', '0%', 'E0'], ['1477', '2008.19.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.20', '- Pineapples :', '', ''], ['1478', '2008.20.10', '- - In airtight containers for retail sale', '5%', 'EX'], ['1479', '2008.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '2008.30', '- Citrus fruit :', '', ''], ['1480', '2008.30.10', '- - Containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1481', '2008.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['1482', '2008.40.00', '- Pears', '5%', 'E0'], ['1483', '2008.50.00', '- Apricots', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.60', '- Cherries :', '', ''], ['1484', '2008.60.10', '- - Containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1485', '2008.60.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.70', '- Peaches, including nectarines :', '', ''], ['1486', '2008.70.10', '- - Containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter or spirit', '0%', 'E0'], ['1487', '2008.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1488', '2008.80.00', '- Strawberries', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, including mixtures other than\nthose of subheading 2008.19 :', '', ''], ['1489', '2008.91.00', '- - Palm hearts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.93', '- - Cranberries (Vaccinium macrocarpon,\nVaccinium oxycoccos, Vaccinium vitis-\nidaea) :', '', ''], ['1490', '2008.93.10', '- - - Containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1491', '2008.93.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.97', '- - Mixtures :', '', ''], ['1492', '2008.97.10', '- - - Of stems, roots and other edible parts\nof plants, not including fruits or nuts\nwhether or not containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1493', '2008.97.20', '- - - Other, containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1494', '2008.97.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2008.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1495', '2008.99.10', '- - - Lychees', '5%', 'E0'], ['1496', '2008.99.20', '- - - Longans', '5%', 'E0'], ['1497', '2008.99.30', '- - - Of stems, roots and other edible parts\nof plants, not including fruits or nuts\nwhether or not containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1498', '2008.99.40', '- - - Other, containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or spirit', '5%', 'E0'], ['1499', '2008.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '20.09', 'Fruit juices (including grape must) and\nvegetable juices, unfermented and not\ncontaining added spirit, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar other\nsweetening matter.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Orange juice :', '', ''], ['1500', '2009.11.00', '- - Frozen', '5%', 'EX'], ['1501', '2009.12.00', '- - Not frozen, of a Brix value not\nexceeding 20', '10%', 'EX'], ['1502', '2009.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Grapefruit (including pomelo) juice :', '', ''], ['1503', '2009.21.00', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '0%', 'E0'], ['1504', '2009.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Juice of any other single citrus fruit :', '', ''], ['1505', '2009.31.00', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '10%', 'EX'], ['1506', '2009.39.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Pineapple juice :', '', ''], ['1507', '2009.41.00', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '10%', 'EX'], ['1508', '2009.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1509', '2009.50.00', '- Tomato juice', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Grape juice (including grape must) :', '', ''], ['1510', '2009.61.00', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 30', '0%', 'E0'], ['1511', '2009.69.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Apple juice :', '', ''], ['1512', '2009.71.00', '- - Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', '10%', 'E0'], ['1513', '2009.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Juice of any other single fruit or\nvegetable :', '', ''], ['', '2009.81', '- - Cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon,\nVaccinium oxycoccos, Vaccinium vitis-\nidaea) juice :', '', ''], ['1514', '2009.81.10', '- - - Suitable for infants or young children', '10%', 'E0'], ['1515', '2009.81.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '2009.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1516', '2009.89.10', '- - - Blackcurrant juice', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1517', '2009.89.91', '- - - - Suitable for infants or young\nchildren', '10%', 'E0'], ['1518', '2009.89.99', '- - - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '2009.90', '- Mixtures of juices :', '', ''], ['1519', '2009.90.10', '- - Suitable for infants or young children', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1520', '2009.90.91', '- - - Ready for immediate consumption', '0%', 'E0'], ['1521', '2009.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '21.01', 'Extracts, essences and concentrates, of\ncoffee, tea or maté, and preparations\nwith a basis of these products or with a\nbasis of coffee, tea or maté; roasted\nchicory and other roasted coffee\nsubstitutes, and extracts, essences and\nconcentrates thereof.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of\ncoffee, and preparations with a basis of\nthese extracts, essences or concentrates or\nwith a basis of coffee :', '', ''], ['', '2101.11', '- - Extracts, essences and concentrates :', '', ''], ['1522', '2101.11.10', '- - - Instant coffee', '0%', 'E0'], ['1523', '2101.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2101.12', '- - Preparations with a basis of extracts,\nessences or concentrates or with a basis of\ncoffee :', '', ''], ['1524', '2101.12.10', '- - - Mixtures in paste form with a basis of\nground roasted coffee, containing\nvegetable fats', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1525', '2101.12.91', '- - - - Coffee preparation with a basis of\nextracts, essences or concentrate\ncontaining added sugar, whether or not\ncontaining creamer', '0%', 'E0'], ['1526', '2101.12.92', '- - - - Coffee preparation with a basis of\nground roasted coffee containing added\nsugar, whether or not containing creamer', '0%', 'E0'], ['1527', '2101.12.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2101.20', '- Extracts, essences and concentrates, of\ntea or maté, and preparations with a basis\nof these extracts, essences or concentrates\nor with a basis of tea or maté :', '', ''], ['1528', '2101.20.20', '- - Tea extracts for the manufacture of tea\npreparations, in powder form', '20%', 'EX'], ['1529', '2101.20.30', '- - Preparations of tea consisting of a\nmixture of tea, milk powder and sugar', '20%', 'EX'], ['1530', '2101.20.90', '- - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['1531', '2101.30.00', '- Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee\nsubstitutes, and extracts, essences and\nconcentrates thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '21.02', 'Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-\ncell micro-organisms, dead (but not\nincluding vaccines of heading 30.02);\nprepared baking powders.', '', ''], ['1532', '2102.10.00', '- Active yeasts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2102.20', '- Inactive yeasts; other single-cell micro-\norganisms, dead :', '', ''], ['1533', '2102.20.10', '- - Of a kind used in animal feeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['1534', '2102.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1535', '2102.30.00', '- Prepared baking powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '21.03', 'Sauces and preparations therefor;\nmixed condiments and mixed\nseasonings; mustard flour and meal\nand prepared mustard.', '', ''], ['1536', '2103.10.00', '- Soya sauce', '8%', 'E7'], ['1537', '2103.20.00', '- Tomato ketchup and other tomato sauces', '0%', 'E0'], ['1538', '2103.30.00', '- Mustard flour and meal and prepared\nmustard', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2103.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Sauces and preparations therefor :', '', ''], ['1539', '2103.90.11', '- - - Chili sauce', '0%', 'E0'], ['1540', '2103.90.12', '- - - Fish sauce', '0%', 'E0'], ['1541', '2103.90.13', '- - - Other sauces', '5%', 'E5'], ['1542', '2103.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Mixed condiments and mixed\nseasonings :', '', ''], ['1543', '2103.90.21', '- - - Shrimp paste including belachan\n(blachan)', '5%', 'EX'], ['1544', '2103.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '21.04', 'Soups and broths and preparations\ntherefor; homogenised composite food\npreparations.', '', ''], ['', '2104.10', '- Soups and broths and preparations\ntherefor :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing meat :', '', ''], ['1545', '2104.10.11', '- - - Suitable for infants or young children', '0%', 'E0'], ['1546', '2104.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1547', '2104.10.91', '- - - Suitable for infant or young children', '0%', 'E0'], ['1548', '2104.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2104.20', '- Homogenised composite food\npreparations :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing meat :', '', ''], ['1549', '2104.20.11', '- - - Suitable for infants or young children', '5%', 'E0'], ['1550', '2104.20.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1551', '2104.20.91', '- - - Suitable for infants or young children', '5%', 'E0'], ['1552', '2104.20.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['1553', '2105.00.00', 'Ice cream and other edible ice, whether\nor not containing cocoa.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '21.06', 'Food preparations not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['1554', '2106.10.00', '- Protein concentrates and textured\nprotein substances', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '2106.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Beancurd :', '', ''], ['1555', '2106.90.11', '- - - Dried bean curd and dried bean curd\nstick', '0%', 'E0'], ['1556', '2106.90.12', '- - - Fresh soybean curd (tofu)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1557', '2106.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1558', '2106.90.20', '- - Powdered alcohol', '150%', 'EX'], ['1559', '2106.90.30', '- - Non-dairy creamer', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Autolysed yeast extracts :', '', ''], ['1560', '2106.90.41', '- - - In powder form', '0%', 'E0'], ['1561', '2106.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, non-alcoholic preparations of a\nkind used for the making or for the\nmanufacture of beverages :', '', ''], ['1562', '2106.90.53', '- - - Ginseng based products', '5%', 'E0'], ['1563', '2106.90.54', '- - - Other preparations of a kind used as\nraw material for the manufacture of\ncomposite concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1564', '2106.90.55', '- - - Other, composite concentrates for\nsimple dilution with water to make\nbeverages', '0%', 'E0'], ['1565', '2106.90.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, alcoholic preparations of a kind\nused for the making or for the\nmanufacture of beverages :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Preparations of a kind used as raw\nmaterial for the manufacture of composite\nconcentrates :', '', ''], ['1566', '2106.90.61', '- - - - Of a kind used for the manufacture\nof alcoholic beverages, in liquid form', '150%', 'EX'], ['1567', '2106.90.62', '- - - - Of a kind used for the manufacture\nof alcoholic beverages, in other forms', '150%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Composite concentrates for simple\ndilution with water to make beverages :', '', ''], ['1568', '2106.90.64', '- - - - Of a kind used for making alcoholic\nbeverages, in liquid form', '150%', 'EX'], ['1569', '2106.90.65', '- - - - Of a kind used for making alcoholic\nbeverages, in other forms', '150%', 'EX'], ['1570', '2106.90.66', '- - - Other, of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of alcoholic beverages, in\nliquid form', '150%', 'EX'], ['1571', '2106.90.67', '- - - Other, of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of alcoholic beverages, in\nother forms', '150%', 'EX'], ['1572', '2106.90.69', '- - - Other', '150%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other food supplements; fortificant\npremixes :', '', ''], ['1573', '2106.90.71', '- - - Food supplements based on ginseng', '0%', 'E0'], ['1574', '2106.90.72', '- - - Other food supplements', '0%', 'E0'], ['1575', '2106.90.73', '- - - Fortificant premixes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Food preparations for use by infants or\nyoung children :', '', ''], ['1576', '2106.90.81', '- - - Food preparations for lactase\ndeficient infants or young children', '0%', 'E0'], ['1577', '2106.90.89', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1578', '2106.90.91', '- - - Other, mixtures of chemicals with\nfoodstuffs or other substances with\nnutritive value, of a kind used for food\nprocessing', '0%', 'E0'], ['1579', '2106.90.92', '- - - Flavoured or coloured syrups', '0%', 'E0'], ['1580', '2106.90.95', '- - - Seri kaya', '0%', 'E0'], ['1581', '2106.90.96', '- - - Other medical foods', '0%', 'E0'], ['1582', '2106.90.97', '- - - Tempeh', '0%', 'E0'], ['1583', '2106.90.98', '- - - Other flavouring preparations', '5%', 'EX'], ['1584', '2106.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '22.01', 'Waters, including natural or artificial\nmineral waters and aerated waters, not\ncontaining added sugar or other\nsweetening matter nor flavoured; ice\nand snow.', '', ''], ['', '2201.10', '- Mineral waters and aerated waters :', '', ''], ['1585', '2201.10.10', '- - Mineral waters', '0%', 'E0'], ['1586', '2201.10.20', '- - Aerated waters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2201.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1587', '2201.90.10', '- - Ice and snow', '0%', 'E0'], ['1588', '2201.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '22.02', 'Waters, including mineral waters and\naerated waters, containing added sugar\nor other sweetening matter or\nflavoured, and other non-alcoholic\nbeverages, not including fruit or\nvegetable juices of heading 20.09.', '', ''], ['', '2202.10', '- Waters, including mineral waters and\naerated waters, containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter or flavoured :', '', ''], ['1589', '2202.10.10', '- - Sparkling mineral waters or aerated\nwaters, flavoured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1590', '2202.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1591', '2202.91.00', '- - Non-alcoholic beer', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '2202.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1592', '2202.99.10', '- - - Flavoured UHT milk based drinks', '0%', 'E0'], ['1593', '2202.99.20', '- - - Soya milk drinks', '0%', 'E0'], ['1594', '2202.99.40', '- - - Coffee based drinks or coffee\nflavoured drinks', '5%', 'E10'], ['1595', '2202.99.50', '- - - Other non-aerated beverages ready\nfor immediate consumption without\ndilution', '0%', 'E0'], ['1596', '2202.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '22.03', 'Beer made from malt.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Stout or porter :', '', ''], ['1597', '2203.00.11', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 5.8 % vol.', '40%', 'EX'], ['1598', '2203.00.19', '- - Other', '40%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other, including ale :', '', ''], ['1599', '2203.00.91', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 5.8 % vol.', '40%', 'EX'], ['1600', '2203.00.99', '- - Other', '40%', 'EX'], ['', '22.04', 'Wine of fresh grapes, including\nfortified wines; grape must other than\nthat of heading 20.09.', '', ''], ['1601', '2204.10.00', '- Sparkling wine', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other wine; grape must with\nfermentation prevented or arrested by the\naddition of alcohol :', '', ''], ['', '2204.21', '- - In containers holding 2 l or less :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Wine :', '', ''], ['1602', '2204.21.11', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1603', '2204.21.13', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol. but not exceeding\n23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1604', '2204.21.14', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Grape must with fermentation\nprevented or arrested by the addition of\nalcohol :', '', ''], ['1605', '2204.21.21', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1606', '2204.21.22', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '2204.22', '- - In containers holding more than 2 l but\nnot more than 10 l :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Wine :', '', ''], ['1607', '2204.22.11', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1608', '2204.22.12', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol. but not exceeding\n23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1609', '2204.22.13', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Grape must with fermentation\nprevented or arrested by the addition of\nalcohol :', '', ''], ['1610', '2204.22.21', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1611', '2204.22.22', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '2204.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Wine :', '', ''], ['1612', '2204.29.11', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1613', '2204.29.13', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol. but not exceeding\n23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1614', '2204.29.14', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 23 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Grape must with fermentation\nprevented or arrested by the addition of\nalcohol :', '', ''], ['1615', '2204.29.21', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1616', '2204.29.22', '- - - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '2204.30', '- Other grape must :', '', ''], ['1617', '2204.30.10', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1618', '2204.30.20', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '22.05', 'Vermouth and other wine of fresh\ngrapes flavoured with plants or\naromatic substances.', '', ''], ['', '2205.10', '- In containers holding 2 l or less :', '', ''], ['1619', '2205.10.10', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1620', '2205.10.20', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '2205.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1621', '2205.90.10', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1622', '2205.90.20', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nexceeding 15 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '22.06', 'Other fermented beverages (for\nexample, cider, perry, mead, saké);\nmixtures of fermented beverages and\nmixtures of fermented beverages and\nnon-alcoholic beverages, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['1623', '2206.00.10', '- Cider or perry', '90%', 'EX'], ['1624', '2206.00.20', '- Saké', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Coconut palm toddy :', '', ''], ['1625', '2206.00.31', '- - In container holding 2 l or less', '90%', 'EX'], ['1626', '2206.00.39', '- - Other', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Shandy :', '', ''], ['1627', '2206.00.41', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 1.14 % vol.', '90%', 'EX'], ['1628', '2206.00.49', '- - Other', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1629', '2206.00.91', '- - Other rice wine (including medicated\nrice wine)', '90%', 'EX'], ['1630', '2206.00.99', '- - Other', '90%', 'EX'], ['', '22.07', 'Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an\nalcoholic strength by volume of 80 %\nvol. or higher; ethyl alcohol and other\nspirits, denatured, of any strength.', '', ''], ['1631', '2207.10.00', '- Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an\nalcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol.\nor higher', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '2207.20', '- Ethyl alcohol and other spirits,\ndenatured, of any strength :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Denatured ethyl alcohol, including\nmethylated spirits :', '', ''], ['1632', '2207.20.11', '- - - Ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength\nby volume exceeding 99 % vol.', '5%', 'EX'], ['1633', '2207.20.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['1634', '2207.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '22.08', 'Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an\nalcoholic strength by volume of less\nthan 80 % vol.; spirits, liqueurs and\nother spirituous beverages.', '', ''], ['', '2208.20', '- Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine\nor grape marc :', '', ''], ['1635', '2208.20.50', '- - Brandy', '150%', 'EX'], ['1636', '2208.20.90', '- - Other', '150%', 'EX'], ['1637', '2208.30.00', '- Whiskies', '150%', 'EX'], ['1638', '2208.40.00', '- Rum and other spirits obtained by\ndistilling fermented sugar-cane products', '150%', 'EX'], ['1639', '2208.50.00', '- Gin and Geneva', '150%', 'EX'], ['1640', '2208.60.00', '- Vodka', '150%', 'EX'], ['', '2208.70', '- Liqueurs and cordials :', '', ''], ['1641', '2208.70.10', '- - Of an alcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 57 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1642', '2208.70.90', '- - Other', '150%', 'EX'], ['', '2208.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1643', '2208.90.10', '- - Medicated samsu of an alcoholic\nstrength by volume not exceeding 40 %\nvol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1644', '2208.90.20', '- - Medicated samsu of an alcoholic\nstrength by volume exceeding 40 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1645', '2208.90.30', '- - Other samsu of an alcoholic strength\nby volume not exceeding 40 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1646', '2208.90.40', '- - Other samsu of an alcoholic strength\nby volume exceeding 40 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1647', '2208.90.50', '- - Arrack or pineapple spirit of an\nalcoholic strength by volume not\nexceeding 40 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1648', '2208.90.60', '- - Arrack or pineapple spirit of an\nalcoholic strength by volume exceeding\n40 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1649', '2208.90.70', '- - Bitters and similar beverages of an\nalcoholic strength not exceeding 57 %\nvol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1650', '2208.90.80', '- - Bitters and similar beverages of an\nalcoholic strength exceeding 57 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1651', '2208.90.91', '- - - Of an alcoholic strength by volume\nnot exceeding 1.14 % vol.', '150%', 'EX'], ['1652', '2208.90.99', '- - - Other', '150%', 'EX'], ['1653', '2209.00.00', 'Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar\nobtained from acetic acid.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '23.01', 'Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or\nmeat offal, of fish or of crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates,\nunfit for human consumption; greaves.', '', ''], ['1654', '2301.10.00', '- Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or\nmeat offal; greaves', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2301.20', '- Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of\ncrustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic\ninvertebrates :', '', ''], ['1655', '2301.20.10', '- - Of fish, with a protein content of less\nthan 60 % by weight', '0%', 'E0'], ['1656', '2301.20.20', '- - Of fish, with a protein content of 60 %\nor more by weight', '0%', 'E0'], ['1657', '2301.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '23.02', 'Bran, sharps and other residues,\nwhether or not in the form of pellets,\nderived from the sifting, milling or\nother working of cereals or of\nleguminous plants.', '', ''], ['1658', '2302.10.00', '- Of maize (corn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2302.30', '- Of wheat :', '', ''], ['1659', '2302.30.10', '- - Bran and pollard', '0%', 'E0'], ['1660', '2302.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2302.40', '- Of other cereals :', '', ''], ['1661', '2302.40.10', '- - Of rice', '0%', 'E0'], ['1662', '2302.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1663', '2302.50.00', '- Of leguminous plants', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '23.03', 'Residues of starch manufacture and\nsimilar residues, beet-pulp, bagasse and\nother waste of sugar manufacture,\nbrewing or distilling dregs and waste,\nwhether or not in the form of pellets.', '', ''], ['', '2303.10', '- Residues of starch manufacture and\nsimilar residues :', '', ''], ['1664', '2303.10.10', '- - Of manioc (cassava) or sago', '0%', 'E0'], ['1665', '2303.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1666', '2303.20.00', '- Beet-pulp, bagasse and other waste of\nsugar manufacture', '0%', 'E0'], ['1667', '2303.30.00', '- Brewing or distilling dregs and waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '23.04', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form of\npellets, resulting from the extraction of\nsoya-bean oil.', '', ''], ['1668', '2304.00.10', '- Defatted soya-bean flour, fit for human\nconsumption', '0%', 'E0'], ['1669', '2304.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1670', '2305.00.00', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form of\npellets, resulting from the extraction of\nground-nut oil.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '23.06', 'Oil-cake and other solid residues,\nwhether or not ground or in the form of\npellets, resulting from the extraction of\nvegetable fats or oils, other than those\nof heading 23.04 or 23.05.', '', ''], ['1671', '2306.10.00', '- Of cotton seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1672', '2306.20.00', '- Of linseed', '0%', 'E0'], ['1673', '2306.30.00', '- Of sunflower seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of rape or colza seeds :', '', ''], ['', '2306.41', '- - Of low erucic acid rape or colza seeds :', '', ''], ['1674', '2306.41.10', '- - - Of low erucic acid rape seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1675', '2306.41.20', '- - - Of low erucic acid colza seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2306.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1676', '2306.49.10', '- - - Of other rape seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1677', '2306.49.20', '- - - Of other colza seeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['1678', '2306.50.00', '- Of coconut or copra', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2306.60', '- Of palm nuts or kernels :', '', ''], ['1679', '2306.60.10', '- - Ground or in the form of pellets', '0%', 'E0'], ['1680', '2306.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2306.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1681', '2306.90.10', '- - Of maize (corn) germ', '0%', 'E0'], ['1682', '2306.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1683', '2307.00.00', 'Wine lees; argol.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1684', '2308.00.00', 'Vegetable materials and vegetable\nwaste, vegetable residues and by-\nproducts, whether or not in the form of\npellets, of a kind used in animal\nfeeding, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '23.09', 'Preparations of a kind used in animal\nfeeding.', '', ''], ['', '2309.10', '- Dog or cat food, put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['1685', '2309.10.10', '- - Containing meat', '0%', 'E0'], ['1686', '2309.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2309.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Complete feed :', '', ''], ['1687', '2309.90.11', '- - - Of a kind suitable for poultry', '0%', 'E0'], ['1688', '2309.90.12', '- - - Of a kind suitable for swine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1689', '2309.90.13', '- - - Of a kind suitable for prawns', '0%', 'E0'], ['1690', '2309.90.14', '- - - Of a kind suitable for primates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1691', '2309.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1692', '2309.90.20', '- - Premixes, feed supplements or feed\nadditives', '0%', 'E0'], ['1693', '2309.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '24.01', 'Unmanufactured tobacco; tobacco\nrefuse.', '', ''], ['', '2401.10', '- Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped :', '', ''], ['1694', '2401.10.10', '- - Virginia type, flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1695', '2401.10.20', '- - Virginia type, other than flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1696', '2401.10.40', '- - Burley type', '0%', 'E0'], ['1697', '2401.10.50', '- - Other, flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1698', '2401.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2401.20', '- Tobacco, partly or wholly\nstemmed/stripped :', '', ''], ['1699', '2401.20.10', '- - Virginia type, flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1700', '2401.20.20', '- - Virginia type, other than flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1701', '2401.20.30', '- - Oriental type', '0%', 'E0'], ['1702', '2401.20.40', '- - Burley type', '0%', 'E0'], ['1703', '2401.20.50', '- - Other, flue-cured', '0%', 'E0'], ['1704', '2401.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2401.30', '- Tobacco refuse :', '', ''], ['1705', '2401.30.10', '- - Tobacco stems', '0%', 'E0'], ['1706', '2401.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '24.02', 'Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and\ncigarettes, of tobacco or of tobacco\nsubstitutes.', '', ''], ['1707', '2402.10.00', '- Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos,\ncontaining tobacco', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2402.20', '- Cigarettes containing tobacco :', '', ''], ['1708', '2402.20.10', '- - Beedies', '0%', 'E0'], ['1709', '2402.20.20', '- - Clove cigarettes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1710', '2402.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2402.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1711', '2402.90.10', '- - Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos of\ntobacco substitutes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1712', '2402.90.20', '- - Cigarettes of tobacco substitutes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '24.03', 'Other manufactured tobacco and\nmanufactured tobacco substitutes;\n“homogenised” or “reconstituted”\ntobacco; tobacco extracts and essences.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Smoking tobacco, whether or not\ncontaining tobacco substitutes in any\nproportion :', '', ''], ['1713', '2403.11.00', '- - Water pipe tobacco specified in\nSubheading Note 1 to this Chapter', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2403.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Packed for retail sale :', '', ''], ['1714', '2403.19.11', '- - - - Ang Hoon', '0%', 'E0'], ['1715', '2403.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1716', '2403.19.20', '- - - Other manufactured tobacco for the\nmanufacture of cigarettes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1717', '2403.19.91', '- - - - Ang Hoon', '0%', 'E0'], ['1718', '2403.19.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '2403.91', '- - “Homogenised’’ or “reconstituted”\ntobacco :', '', ''], ['1719', '2403.91.10', '- - - Packed for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['1720', '2403.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2403.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1721', '2403.99.10', '- - - Tobacco extracts and essences', '0%', 'E0'], ['1722', '2403.99.30', '- - - Manufactured tobacco substitutes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1723', '2403.99.40', '- - - Snuff, whether or not dry', '0%', 'E0'], ['1724', '2403.99.50', '- - - Chewing and sucking tobacco', '0%', 'E0'], ['1725', '2403.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.01', 'Salt (including table salt and denatured\nsalt) and pure sodium chloride,\nwhether or not in aqueous solution or\ncontaining added anti-caking or free-\nflowing agents; sea water.', '', ''], ['1726', '2501.00.10', '- Table salt', '0%', 'E0'], ['1727', '2501.00.20', '- Unprocessed rock salt', '0%', 'E0'], ['1728', '2501.00.50', '- Sea water', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1729', '2501.00.91', '- - With sodium chloride content more\nthan 60 % but less than 97 %, calculated\non a dry basis, fortified with iodine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1730', '2501.00.92', '- - Other, with sodium chloride content\n97 % or more but less than 99.9 %,\ncalculated on a dry basis', '0%', 'E0'], ['1731', '2501.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1732', '2502.00.00', 'Unroasted iron pyrites.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1733', '2503.00.00', 'Sulphur of all kinds, other than\nsublimed sulphur, precipitated sulphur\nand colloidal sulphur.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.04', 'Natural graphite.', '', ''], ['1734', '2504.10.00', '- In powder or in flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1735', '2504.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.05', 'Natural sands of all kinds, whether or\nnot coloured, other than metal-bearing\nsands of Chapter 26.', '', ''], ['1736', '2505.10.00', '- Silica sands and quartz sands', '0%', 'E0'], ['1737', '2505.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.06', 'Quartz (other than natural sands);\nquartzite, whether or not roughly\ntrimmed or merely cut, by sawing or\notherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape.', '', ''], ['1738', '2506.10.00', '- Quartz', '0%', 'E0'], ['1739', '2506.20.00', '- Quartzite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1740', '2507.00.00', 'Kaolin and other kaolinic clays,\nwhether or not calcined.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.08', 'Other clays (not including expanded\nclays of heading 68.06), andalusite,\nkyanite and sillimanite, whether or not\ncalcined; mullite; chamotte or dinas\nearths.', '', ''], ['1741', '2508.10.00', '- Bentonite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1742', '2508.30.00', '- Fire-clay', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2508.40', '- Other clays :', '', ''], ['1743', '2508.40.10', "- - Fuller's earth", '0%', 'E0'], ['1744', '2508.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1745', '2508.50.00', '- Andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1746', '2508.60.00', '- Mullite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1747', '2508.70.00', '- Chamotte or dinas earths', '0%', 'E0'], ['1748', '2509.00.00', 'Chalk.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.10', 'Natural calcium phosphates, natural\naluminium calcium phosphates and\nphosphatic chalk.', '', ''], ['', '2510.10', '- Unground :', '', ''], ['1749', '2510.10.10', '- - Apatite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1750', '2510.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2510.20', '- Ground :', '', ''], ['1751', '2510.20.10', '- - Apatite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1752', '2510.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.11', 'Natural barium sulphate (barytes);\nnatural barium carbonate (witherite),\nwhether or not calcined, other than\nbarium oxide of heading 28.16.', '', ''], ['1753', '2511.10.00', '- Natural barium sulphate (barytes)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1754', '2511.20.00', '- Natural barium carbonate (witherite)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1755', '2512.00.00', 'Siliceous fossil meals (for example,\nkieselguhr, tripolite and diatomite) and\nsimilar siliceous earths, whether or not\ncalcined, of an apparent specific gravity\nof 1 or less.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.13', 'Pumice stone; emery; natural\ncorundum, natural garnet and other\nnatural abrasives, whether or not heat-\ntreated.', '', ''], ['1756', '2513.10.00', '- Pumice stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['1757', '2513.20.00', '- Emery, natural corundum, natural garnet\nand other natural abrasives', '0%', 'E0'], ['1758', '2514.00.00', 'Slate, whether or not roughly trimmed\nor merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.15', 'Marble, travertine, ecaussine and other\ncalcareous monumental or building\nstone of an apparent specific gravity of\n2.5 or more, and alabaster, whether or\nnot roughly trimmed or merely cut, by\nsawing or otherwise, into blocks or\nslabs of a rectangular (including\nsquare) shape.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Marble and travertine :', '', ''], ['1759', '2515.11.00', '- - Crude or roughly trimmed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2515.12', '- - Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape :', '', ''], ['1760', '2515.12.10', '- - - Blocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['1761', '2515.12.20', '- - - Slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['1762', '2515.20.00', '- Ecaussine and other calcareous\nmonumental or building stone; alabaster', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.16', 'Granite, porphyry, basalt, sandstone\nand other monumental or building\nstone, whether or not roughly trimmed\nor merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Granite :', '', ''], ['1763', '2516.11.00', '- - Crude or roughly trimmed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2516.12', '- - Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape :', '', ''], ['1764', '2516.12.10', '- - - Blocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['1765', '2516.12.20', '- - - Slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2516.20', '- Sandstone :', '', ''], ['1766', '2516.20.10', '- - Crude or roughly trimmed', '0%', 'E0'], ['1767', '2516.20.20', '- - Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise,\ninto blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape', '0%', 'E0'], ['1768', '2516.90.00', '- Other monumental or building stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.17', 'Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed\nstone, of a kind commonly used for\nconcrete aggregates, for road metalling\nor for railway or other ballast, shingle\nand flint, whether or not heat-treated;\nmacadam of slag, dross or similar\nindustrial waste, whether or not\nincorporating the materials cited in the\nfirst part of the heading; tarred\nmacadam; granules, chippings and\npowder, of stones of heading 25.15 or\n25.16, whether or not heat-treated.', '', ''], ['1769', '2517.10.00', '- Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed\nstone, of a kind commonly used for\nconcrete aggregates, for road metalling or\nfor railway or other ballast, shingle and\nflint, whether or not heat-treated', '0%', 'E0'], ['1770', '2517.20.00', '- Macadam of slag, dross or similar\nindustrial waste, whether or not\nincorporating the materials cited in\nsubheading 2517.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['1771', '2517.30.00', '- Tarred macadam', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Granules, chippings and powder, of\nstones of heading 25.15 or 25.16, whether\nor not heat-treated :', '', ''], ['1772', '2517.41.00', '- - Of marble', '0%', 'E0'], ['1773', '2517.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.18', 'Dolomite, whether or not calcined or\nsintered, including dolomite roughly\ntrimmed or merely cut, by sawing or\notherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape;\ndolomite ramming mix.', '', ''], ['1774', '2518.10.00', '- Dolomite, not calcined or sintered', '0%', 'E0'], ['1775', '2518.20.00', '- Calcined or sintered dolomite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1776', '2518.30.00', '- Dolomite ramming mix', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.19', 'Natural magnesium carbonate\n(magnesite); fused magnesia; dead-\nburned (sintered) magnesia, whether or\nnot containing small quantities of other\noxides added before sintering; other\nmagnesium oxide, whether or not pure.', '', ''], ['1777', '2519.10.00', '- Natural magnesium carbonate\n(magnesite)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2519.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1778', '2519.90.10', '- - Fused magnesia; dead-burned\n(sintered) magnesia', '0%', 'E0'], ['1779', '2519.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.20', 'Gypsum; anhydrite; plasters\n(consisting of calcined gypsum or\ncalcium sulphate) whether or not\ncoloured, with or without small\nquantities of accelerators or retarders.', '', ''], ['1780', '2520.10.00', '- Gypsum; anhydrite', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2520.20', '- Plasters :', '', ''], ['1781', '2520.20.10', '- - Of a kind suitable for use in dentistry', '0%', 'E0'], ['1782', '2520.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1783', '2521.00.00', 'Limestone flux; limestone and other\ncalcareous stone, of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of lime or cement.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.22', 'Quicklime, slaked lime and hydraulic\nlime, other than calcium oxide and\nhydroxide of heading 28.25.', '', ''], ['1784', '2522.10.00', '- Quicklime', '0%', 'E0'], ['1785', '2522.20.00', '- Slaked lime', '0%', 'E0'], ['1786', '2522.30.00', '- Hydraulic lime', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.23', 'Portland cement, aluminous cement,\nslag cement, supersulphate cement and\nsimilar hydraulic cements, whether or\nnot coloured or in the form of clinkers.', '', ''], ['', '2523.10', '- Cement clinkers :', '', ''], ['1787', '2523.10.10', '- - Of a kind used in the manufacture of\nwhite cement', '0%', 'E0'], ['1788', '2523.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Portland cement :', '', ''], ['1789', '2523.21.00', '- - White cement, whether or not\nartificially coloured', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2523.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1790', '2523.29.10', '- - - Coloured cement', '0%', 'E0'], ['1791', '2523.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1792', '2523.30.00', '- Aluminous cement', '0%', 'E0'], ['1793', '2523.90.00', '- Other hydraulic cements', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.24', 'Asbestos.', '', ''], ['1794', '2524.10.00', '- Crocidolite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1795', '2524.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.25', 'Mica, including splittings; mica waste.', '', ''], ['1796', '2525.10.00', '- Crude mica and mica rifted into sheets\nor splittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['1797', '2525.20.00', '- Mica powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['1798', '2525.30.00', '- Mica waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.26', 'Natural steatite, whether or not roughly\ntrimmed or merely cut, by sawing or\notherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape;\ntalc.', '', ''], ['1799', '2526.10.00', '- Not crushed, not powdered', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2526.20', '- Crushed or powdered :', '', ''], ['1800', '2526.20.10', '- - Talc powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['1801', '2526.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1802', '2528.00.00', 'Natural borates and concentrates\nthereof (whether or not calcined), but\nnot including borates separated from\nnatural brine; natural boric acid\ncontaining not more than 85 % of\nH BO calculated on the dry weight.\n3 3', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.29', 'Feldspar; leucite; nepheline and\nnepheline syenite; fluorspar.', '', ''], ['', '2529.10', '- Feldspar :', '', ''], ['1803', '2529.10.10', '- - Potash feldspar; soda feldspar', '0%', 'E0'], ['1804', '2529.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fluorspar :', '', ''], ['1805', '2529.21.00', '- - Containing by weight 97 % or less of\ncalcium fluoride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1806', '2529.22.00', '- - Containing by weight more than 97 %\nof calcium fluoride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1807', '2529.30.00', '- Leucite; nepheline and nepheline syenite', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '25.30', 'Mineral substances not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['1808', '2530.10.00', '- Vermiculite, perlite and chlorites,\nunexpanded', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2530.20', '- Kieserite, epsomite (natural magnesium\nsulphates) :', '', ''], ['1809', '2530.20.10', '- - Kieserite', '0%', 'E0'], ['1810', '2530.20.20', '- - Epsomite (natural magnesium\nsulphates)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2530.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1811', '2530.90.10', '- - Micronized zircon sand (zirconium\nsilicate) of a kind used as an opacifier', '0%', 'E0'], ['1812', '2530.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.01', 'Iron ores and concentrates, including\nroasted iron pyrites.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Iron ores and concentrates, other than\nroasted iron pyrites :', '', ''], ['', '2601.11', '- - Non-agglomerated :', '', ''], ['1813', '2601.11.10', '- - - Haematite and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1814', '2601.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2601.12', '- - Agglomerated :', '', ''], ['1815', '2601.12.10', '- - - Haematite and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1816', '2601.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1817', '2601.20.00', '- Roasted iron pyrites', '0%', 'E0'], ['1818', '2602.00.00', 'Manganese ores and concentrates,\nincluding ferruginous manganese ores\nand concentrates with a manganese\ncontent of 20 % or more, calculated on\nthe dry weight.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1819', '2603.00.00', 'Copper ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1820', '2604.00.00', 'Nickel ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1821', '2605.00.00', 'Cobalt ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1822', '2606.00.00', 'Aluminium ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1823', '2607.00.00', 'Lead ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1824', '2608.00.00', 'Zinc ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1825', '2609.00.00', 'Tin ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1826', '2610.00.00', 'Chromium ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1827', '2611.00.00', 'Tungsten ores and concentrates.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.12', 'Uranium or thorium ores and\nconcentrates.', '', ''], ['1828', '2612.10.00', '- Uranium ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1829', '2612.20.00', '- Thorium ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.13', 'Molybdenum ores and concentrates.', '', ''], ['1830', '2613.10.00', '- Roasted', '0%', 'E0'], ['1831', '2613.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.14', 'Titanium ores and concentrates.', '', ''], ['1832', '2614.00.10', '- Ilmenite ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1833', '2614.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.15', 'Niobium, tantalum, vanadium or\nzirconium ores and concentrates.', '', ''], ['1834', '2615.10.00', '- Zirconium ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1835', '2615.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.16', 'Precious metal ores and concentrates.', '', ''], ['1836', '2616.10.00', '- Silver ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1837', '2616.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.17', 'Other ores and concentrates.', '', ''], ['1838', '2617.10.00', '- Antimony ores and concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1839', '2617.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1840', '2618.00.00', 'Granulated slag (slag sand) from the\nmanufacture of iron or steel.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1841', '2619.00.00', 'Slag, dross (other than granulated\nslag), scalings and other waste from the\nmanufacture of iron or steel.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.20', 'Slag, ash and residues (other than from\nthe manufacture of iron or steel)\ncontaining metals, arsenic or their\ncompounds.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing mainly zinc :', '', ''], ['1842', '2620.11.00', '- - Hard zinc spelter', '0%', 'E0'], ['1843', '2620.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing mainly lead :', '', ''], ['1844', '2620.21.00', '- - Leaded gasoline sludges and leaded\nanti-knock compound sludges', '0%', 'E0'], ['1845', '2620.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1846', '2620.30.00', '- Containing mainly copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['1847', '2620.40.00', '- Containing mainly aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['1848', '2620.60.00', '- Containing arsenic, mercury, thallium or\ntheir mixtures, of a kind used for the\nextraction of arsenic or those metals or for\nthe manufacture of their chemical\ncompounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1849', '2620.91.00', '- - Containing antimony, beryllium,\ncadmium, chromium or their mixtures', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2620.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1850', '2620.99.10', '- - - Slag and hardhead of tin', '0%', 'E0'], ['1851', '2620.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '26.21', 'Other slag and ash, including seaweed\nash (kelp); ash and residues from the\nincineration of municipal waste.', '', ''], ['1852', '2621.10.00', '- Ash and residues from the incineration\nof municipal waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['1853', '2621.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.01', 'Coal; briquettes, ovoids and similar\nsolid fuels manufactured from coal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Coal, whether or not pulverised, but not\nagglomerated :', '', ''], ['1854', '2701.11.00', '- - Anthracite', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2701.12', '- - Bituminous coal :', '', ''], ['1855', '2701.12.10', '- - - Coking coal', '0%', 'E0'], ['1856', '2701.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1857', '2701.19.00', '- - Other coal', '0%', 'E0'], ['1858', '2701.20.00', '- Briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels\nmanufactured from coal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.02', 'Lignite, whether or not agglomerated,\nexcluding jet.', '', ''], ['1859', '2702.10.00', '- Lignite, whether or not pulverised, but\nnot agglomerated', '0%', 'E0'], ['1860', '2702.20.00', '- Agglomerated lignite', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.03', 'Peat (including peat litter), whether or\nnot agglomerated.', '', ''], ['1861', '2703.00.10', '- Peat, whether or not compressed into\nbales, but not agglomerated', '0%', 'E0'], ['1862', '2703.00.20', '- Agglomerated peat', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.04', 'Coke and semi-coke of coal, of lignite\nor of peat, whether or not\nagglomerated; retort carbon.', '', ''], ['1863', '2704.00.10', '- Coke and semi-coke of coal', '0%', 'E0'], ['1864', '2704.00.20', '- Coke and semi-coke of lignite or of peat', '0%', 'E0'], ['1865', '2704.00.30', '- Retort carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['1866', '2705.00.00', 'Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and\nsimilar gases, other than petroleum\ngases and other gaseous hydrocarbons.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1867', '2706.00.00', 'Tar distilled from coal, from lignite or\nfrom peat, and other mineral tars,\nwhether or not dehydrated or partially\ndistilled, including reconstituted tars.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.07', 'Oils and other products of the\ndistillation of high temperature coal\ntar; similar products in which the\nweight of the aromatic constituents\nexceeds that of the non-aromatic\nconstituents.', '', ''], ['1868', '2707.10.00', '- Benzol (benzene)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1869', '2707.20.00', '- Toluol (toluene)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1870', '2707.30.00', '- Xylol (xylenes)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1871', '2707.40.00', '- Naphthalene', '0%', 'E0'], ['1872', '2707.50.00', '- Other aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures of\nwhich 65 % or more by volume\n(including losses) distils at 250 °C by the\nISO 3405 method (equivalent to the\nASTM D 86 method)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1873', '2707.91.00', '- - Creosote oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2707.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1874', '2707.99.10', '- - - Carbon black feedstock', '0%', 'E0'], ['1875', '2707.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.08', 'Pitch and pitch coke, obtained from\ncoal tar or from other mineral tars.', '', ''], ['1876', '2708.10.00', '- Pitch', '0%', 'E0'], ['1877', '2708.20.00', '- Pitch coke', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.09', 'Petroleum oils and oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals, crude.', '', ''], ['1878', '2709.00.10', '- Crude petroleum oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['1879', '2709.00.20', '- Condensates', '0%', 'E0'], ['1880', '2709.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.10', 'Petroleum oils and oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals, other than crude;\npreparations not elsewhere specified or\nincluded, containing by weight 70 % or\nmore of petroleum oils or of oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals,\nthese oils being the basic constituents of\nthe preparations; waste oils.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Petroleum oils and oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals (other than crude)\nand preparations not elsewhere specified\nor included, containing by weight 70 % or\nmore of petroleum oils or of oils obtained\nfrom bituminous minerals, these oils\nbeing the basic constituents of the\npreparations, other than those containing\nbiodiesel and other than waste oils :', '', ''], ['', '2710.12', '- - Light oils and preparations :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Motor spirit, leaded :', '', ''], ['1881', '2710.12.11', '- - - - Of RON 97 and above', '0%', 'E0'], ['1882', '2710.12.12', '- - - - Of RON 90 and above but below\nRON 97', '0%', 'E0'], ['1883', '2710.12.13', '- - - - Of other RON', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor spirit, unleaded :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Of RON 97 and above :', '', ''], ['1884', '2710.12.21', '- - - - - Unblended', '0%', 'E0'], ['1885', '2710.12.22', '- - - - - Blended with ethanol', '0%', 'E0'], ['1886', '2710.12.23', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Of RON 90 and above but below\nRON 97 :', '', ''], ['1887', '2710.12.24', '- - - - - Unblended', '0%', 'E0'], ['1888', '2710.12.25', '- - - - - Blended with ethanol', '0%', 'E0'], ['1889', '2710.12.26', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Of other RON :', '', ''], ['1890', '2710.12.27', '- - - - - Unblended', '0%', 'E0'], ['1891', '2710.12.28', '- - - - - Blended with ethanol', '0%', 'E0'], ['1892', '2710.12.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Aviation spirit, of a kind used in\naviation piston-engines :', '', ''], ['1893', '2710.12.31', '- - - - 100 octane and above', '0%', 'E0'], ['1894', '2710.12.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1895', '2710.12.40', '- - - Tetrapropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['1896', '2710.12.50', '- - - White spirit', '0%', 'E0'], ['1897', '2710.12.60', '- - - Low aromatic solvents containing by\nweight less than 1 % aromatic content', '0%', 'E0'], ['1898', '2710.12.70', '- - - Other solvent spirits', '0%', 'E0'], ['1899', '2710.12.80', '- - - Naphtha, reformates and other\npreparations of a kind used for blending\ninto motor spirits', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['1900', '2710.12.91', '- - - - Alpha olefins', '0%', 'E0'], ['1901', '2710.12.92', '- - - - Other, petroleum spirit, having a\nflashpoint of less than 23 °C', '0%', 'E0'], ['1902', '2710.12.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2710.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1903', '2710.19.20', '- - - Topped crudes', '0%', 'E0'], ['1904', '2710.19.30', '- - - Carbon black feedstock', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Lubricating oils and greases :', '', ''], ['1905', '2710.19.41', '- - - - Lubricating oil feedstock', '0%', 'E0'], ['1906', '2710.19.42', '- - - - Lubricating oils for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['1907', '2710.19.43', '- - - - Other lubricating oils', '5%', 'EX'], ['1908', '2710.19.44', '- - - - Lubricating greases', '5%', 'E5'], ['1909', '2710.19.50', '- - - Hydraulic brake fluid', '5%', 'E5'], ['1910', '2710.19.60', '- - - Transformer and circuit breakers oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Diesel fuel; fuel oils :', '', ''], ['1911', '2710.19.71', '- - - - Automotive diesel fuel', '0%', 'E0'], ['1912', '2710.19.72', '- - - - Other diesel fuels', '0%', 'E0'], ['1913', '2710.19.79', '- - - - Fuel oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['1914', '2710.19.81', '- - - Aviation turbine fuel (jet fuel) having\na flash point of 23 °C or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['1915', '2710.19.82', '- - - Aviation turbine fuel (jet fuel) having\na flash point of less than 23 °C', '0%', 'E0'], ['1916', '2710.19.83', '- - - Other kerosene', '0%', 'E0'], ['1917', '2710.19.89', '- - - Other medium oils and preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['1918', '2710.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1919', '2710.20.00', '- Petroleum oils and oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals (other than crude)\nand preparations not elsewhere specified\nor included, containing by weight 70 % or\nmore of petroleum oils or of oils obtained\nfrom bituminous minerals, these oils\nbeing the basic constituents of the\npreparations, containing biodiesel, other\nthan waste oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Waste oils :', '', ''], ['1920', '2710.91.00', '- - Containing polychlorinated biphenyls\n(PCBs), polychlorinated terphenyls\n(PCTs) or polybrominated biphenyls\n(PBBs)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1921', '2710.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.11', 'Petroleum gases and other gaseous\nhydrocarbons.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Liquefied :', '', ''], ['1922', '2711.11.00', '- - Natural gas', '0%', 'E0'], ['1923', '2711.12.00', '- - Propane', '0%', 'E0'], ['1924', '2711.13.00', '- - Butanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2711.14', '- - Ethylene, propylene, butylene and\nbutadiene :', '', ''], ['1925', '2711.14.10', '- - - Ethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['1926', '2711.14.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1927', '2711.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- In gaseous state :', '', ''], ['', '2711.21', '- - Natural gas :', '', ''], ['1928', '2711.21.10', '- - - Of a kind used as a motor fuel', '0%', 'E0'], ['1929', '2711.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1930', '2711.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.12', 'Petroleum jelly; paraffin wax,\nmicrocrystalline petroleum wax, slack\nwax, ozokerite, lignite wax, peat wax,\nother mineral waxes, and similar\nproducts obtained by synthesis or by\nother processes, whether or not\ncoloured.', '', ''], ['1931', '2712.10.00', '- Petroleum jelly', '0%', 'E0'], ['1932', '2712.20.00', '- Paraffin wax containing by weight less\nthan 0.75 % of oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2712.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['1933', '2712.90.10', '- - Paraffin wax', '0%', 'E0'], ['1934', '2712.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.13', 'Petroleum coke, petroleum bitumen\nand other residues of petroleum oils or\nof oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Petroleum coke :', '', ''], ['1935', '2713.11.00', '- - Not calcined', '0%', 'E0'], ['1936', '2713.12.00', '- - Calcined', '0%', 'E0'], ['1937', '2713.20.00', '- Petroleum bitumen', '0%', 'E0'], ['1938', '2713.90.00', '- Other residues of petroleum oils or of\noils obtained from bituminous minerals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.14', 'Bitumen and asphalt, natural;\nbituminous or oil shale and tar sands;\nasphaltites and asphaltic rocks.', '', ''], ['1939', '2714.10.00', '- Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands', '0%', 'E0'], ['1940', '2714.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '27.15', 'Bituminous mixtures based on natural\nasphalt, on natural bitumen, on\npetroleum bitumen, on mineral tar or\non mineral tar pitch (for example,\nbituminous mastics, cut-backs).', '', ''], ['1941', '2715.00.10', '- Polyurethane tar coatings', '0%', 'E0'], ['1942', '2715.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1943', '2716.00.00', 'Electrical energy.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nCHEMICAL ELEMENTS', '', ''], ['', '28.01', 'Fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine.', '', ''], ['1944', '2801.10.00', '- Chlorine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1945', '2801.20.00', '- Iodine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1946', '2801.30.00', '- Fluorine; bromine', '0%', 'E0'], ['1947', '2802.00.00', 'Sulphur, sublimed or precipitated;\ncolloidal sulphur.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.03', 'Carbon (carbon blacks and other forms\nof carbon not elsewhere specified or\nincluded).', '', ''], ['1948', '2803.00.20', '- Acetylene black', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other carbon blacks :', '', ''], ['1949', '2803.00.41', '- - Of a kind used for rubber processing', '0%', 'E0'], ['1950', '2803.00.49', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1951', '2803.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.04', 'Hydrogen, rare gases and other non-\nmetals.', '', ''], ['1952', '2804.10.00', '- Hydrogen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Rare gases :', '', ''], ['1953', '2804.21.00', '- - Argon', '0%', 'E0'], ['1954', '2804.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1955', '2804.30.00', '- Nitrogen', '0%', 'E0'], ['1956', '2804.40.00', '- Oxygen', '0%', 'E0'], ['1957', '2804.50.00', '- Boron; tellurium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Silicon :', '', ''], ['1958', '2804.61.00', '- - Containing by weight not less than\n99.99 % of silicon', '0%', 'E0'], ['1959', '2804.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1960', '2804.70.00', '- Phosphorus', '0%', 'E0'], ['1961', '2804.80.00', '- Arsenic', '0%', 'E0'], ['1962', '2804.90.00', '- Selenium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.05', 'Alkali or alkaline-earth metals; rare-\nearth metals, scandium and yttrium,\nwhether or not intermixed or\ninteralloyed; mercury.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Alkali or alkaline-earth metals :', '', ''], ['1963', '2805.11.00', '- - Sodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['1964', '2805.12.00', '- - Calcium', '0%', 'E0'], ['1965', '2805.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1966', '2805.30.00', '- Rare-earth metals, scandium and yttrium\nwhether or not intermixed or interalloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['1967', '2805.40.00', '- Mercury', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nINORGANIC ACIDS AND\nINORGANIC OXYGEN\nCOMPOUNDS OF NON-METALS', '', ''], ['', '28.06', 'Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid);\nchlorosulphuric acid.', '', ''], ['1968', '2806.10.00', '- Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1969', '2806.20.00', '- Chlorosulphuric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1970', '2807.00.00', 'Sulphuric acid; oleum.', '0%', 'E0'], ['1971', '2808.00.00', 'Nitric acid; sulphonitric acids.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.09', 'Diphosphorous pentaoxide; phosphoric\nacid; polyphosphoric acids, whether or\nnot chemically defined.', '', ''], ['1972', '2809.10.00', '- Diphosphorus pentaoxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2809.20', '- Phosphoric acid and polyphosphoric\nacids :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Food grade :', '', ''], ['1973', '2809.20.31', '- - - Hypophosphoric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1974', '2809.20.32', '- - - Phosphoric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1975', '2809.20.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1976', '2809.20.91', '- - - Hypophosphoric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1977', '2809.20.92', '- - - Phosphoric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1978', '2809.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1979', '2810.00.00', 'Oxides of boron; boric acids.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.11', 'Other inorganic acids and other\ninorganic oxygen compounds of non-\nmetals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Other inorganic acids :', '', ''], ['1980', '2811.11.00', '- - Hydrogen fluoride (hydrofluoric acid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1981', '2811.12.00', '- - Hydrogen cyanide (hydrocyanic acid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2811.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1982', '2811.19.10', '- - - Arsenic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['1983', '2811.19.20', '- - - Aminosulphonic acid (sulphamic\nacid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1984', '2811.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other inorganic oxygen compounds of\nnon-metals :', '', ''], ['1985', '2811.21.00', '- - Carbon dioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2811.22', '- - Silicon dioxide :', '', ''], ['1986', '2811.22.10', '- - - In powder form', '0%', 'E0'], ['1987', '2811.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2811.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['1988', '2811.29.10', '- - - Diarsenic pentaoxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['1989', '2811.29.20', '- - - Sulphur dioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['1990', '2811.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER III\nHALOGEN OR SULPHUR\nCOMPOUNDS OF NON-METAL', '', ''], ['', '28.12', 'Halides and halide oxides of non-\nmetals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Chlorides and chloride oxides :', '', ''], ['1991', '2812.11.00', '- - Carbonyl dichloride (phosgene)', '0%', 'E0'], ['1992', '2812.12.00', '- - Phosphorus oxychloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1993', '2812.13.00', '- - Phosphorus trichloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1994', '2812.14.00', '- - Phosphorus pentachloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1995', '2812.15.00', '- - Sulphur monochloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1996', '2812.16.00', '- - Sulphur dichloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1997', '2812.17.00', '- - Thionyl chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['1998', '2812.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['1999', '2812.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.13', 'Sulphides of non-metals; commercial\nphosphorus trisulphide.', '', ''], ['2000', '2813.10.00', '- Carbon disulphide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2001', '2813.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER IV\nINORGANIC BASES AND OXIDES,\nHYDROXIDES AND PEROXIDES OF\nMETALS', '', ''], ['', '28.14', 'Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous\nsolution.', '', ''], ['2002', '2814.10.00', '- Anhydrous ammonia', '0%', 'E0'], ['2003', '2814.20.00', '- Ammonia in aqueous solution', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.15', 'Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda);\npotassium hydroxide (caustic potash);\nperoxides of sodium or potassium.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda) :', '', ''], ['2004', '2815.11.00', '- - Solid', '5%', 'EX'], ['2005', '2815.12.00', '- - In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid\nsoda)', '5%', 'EX'], ['2006', '2815.20.00', '- Potassium hydroxide (caustic potash)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2007', '2815.30.00', '- Peroxides of sodium or potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.16', 'Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium;\noxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of\nstrontium or barium.', '', ''], ['2008', '2816.10.00', '- Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2009', '2816.40.00', '- Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of\nstrontium or barium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.17', 'Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide.', '', ''], ['2010', '2817.00.10', '- Zinc oxide', '5%', 'EX'], ['2011', '2817.00.20', '- Zinc peroxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.18', 'Artificial corundum, whether or not\nchemically defined; aluminium oxide;\naluminium hydroxide.', '', ''], ['2012', '2818.10.00', '- Artificial corundum, whether or not\nchemically defined', '0%', 'E0'], ['2013', '2818.20.00', '- Aluminium oxide, other than artificial\ncorundum', '0%', 'E0'], ['2014', '2818.30.00', '- Aluminium hydroxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.19', 'Chromium oxides and hydroxides.', '', ''], ['2015', '2819.10.00', '- Chromium trioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2016', '2819.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.20', 'Manganese oxides.', '', ''], ['2017', '2820.10.00', '- Manganese dioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2018', '2820.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.21', 'Iron oxides and hydroxides; earth\ncolours containing 70 % or more by\nweight of combined iron evaluated as\nFe O .\n2 3', '', ''], ['2019', '2821.10.00', '- Iron oxides and hydroxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2020', '2821.20.00', '- Earth colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['2021', '2822.00.00', 'Cobalt oxides and hydroxides;\ncommercial cobalt oxides.', '0%', 'E0'], ['2022', '2823.00.00', 'Titanium oxides.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.24', 'Lead oxides; red lead and orange lead.', '', ''], ['2023', '2824.10.00', '- Lead monoxide (litharge, massicot)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2024', '2824.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.25', 'Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and\ntheir inorganic salts; other inorganic\nbases; other metal oxides, hydroxides\nand peroxides.', '', ''], ['2025', '2825.10.00', '- Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their\ninorganic salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2026', '2825.20.00', '- Lithium oxide and hydroxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2027', '2825.30.00', '- Vanadium oxides and hydroxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2028', '2825.40.00', '- Nickel oxides and hydroxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2029', '2825.50.00', '- Copper oxides and hydroxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2030', '2825.60.00', '- Germanium oxides and zirconium\ndioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2031', '2825.70.00', '- Molybdenum oxides and hydroxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2032', '2825.80.00', '- Antimony oxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2033', '2825.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER V\nSALTS AND PEROXYSALTS OF\nINORGANIC ACIDS AND METALS', '', ''], ['', '28.26', 'Fluorides; fluorosilicates,\nfluoroaluminates and other complex\nfluorine salts.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fluorides :', '', ''], ['2034', '2826.12.00', '- - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2035', '2826.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2036', '2826.30.00', '- Sodium hexafluoroaluminate (synthetic\ncryolite)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2037', '2826.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.27', 'Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloride\nhydroxides; bromides and bromide\noxides; iodides and iodide oxides.', '', ''], ['2038', '2827.10.00', '- Ammonium chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2827.20', '- Calcium chloride :', '', ''], ['2039', '2827.20.10', '- - Containing 73 % - 80 % by weight', '0%', 'E0'], ['2040', '2827.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other chlorides :', '', ''], ['2041', '2827.31.00', '- - Of magnesium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2042', '2827.32.00', '- - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2043', '2827.35.00', '- - Of nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2827.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2044', '2827.39.10', '- - - Of barium or of cobalt', '0%', 'E0'], ['2045', '2827.39.20', '- - - Of iron', '0%', 'E0'], ['2046', '2827.39.30', '- - - Of zinc', '5%', 'EX'], ['2047', '2827.39.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Chloride oxides and chloride\nhydroxides :', '', ''], ['2048', '2827.41.00', '- - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['2049', '2827.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Bromides and bromide oxides :', '', ''], ['2050', '2827.51.00', '- - Bromides of sodium or of potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2051', '2827.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2052', '2827.60.00', '- Iodides and iodide oxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.28', 'Hypochlorites; commercial calcium\nhypochlorite; chlorites; hypobromites.', '', ''], ['2053', '2828.10.00', '- Commercial calcium hypochlorite and\nother calcium hypochlorites', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2828.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2054', '2828.90.10', '- - Sodium hypochlorite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2055', '2828.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.29', 'Chlorates and perchlorates; bromates\nand perbromates; iodates and\nperiodates.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Chlorates :', '', ''], ['2056', '2829.11.00', '- - Of sodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2057', '2829.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2829.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2058', '2829.90.10', '- - Sodium perchlorate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2059', '2829.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.30', 'Sulphides; polysulphides, whether or\nnot chemically defined.', '', ''], ['2060', '2830.10.00', '- Sodium sulphides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2830.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2061', '2830.90.10', '- - Cadmium sulphide or zinc sulphide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2062', '2830.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.31', 'Dithionites and sulphoxylates.', '', ''], ['2063', '2831.10.00', '- Of sodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2064', '2831.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.32', 'Sulphites; thiosulphates.', '', ''], ['2065', '2832.10.00', '- Sodium sulphites', '0%', 'E0'], ['2066', '2832.20.00', '- Other sulphites', '0%', 'E0'], ['2067', '2832.30.00', '- Thiosulphates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.33', 'Sulphates; alums; peroxosulphates\n(persulphates).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sodium sulphates :', '', ''], ['2068', '2833.11.00', '- - Disodium sulphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2069', '2833.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other sulphates :', '', ''], ['2070', '2833.21.00', '- - Of magnesium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2833.22', '- - Of aluminium :', '', ''], ['2071', '2833.22.10', '- - - Commercial grade', '5%', 'EX'], ['2072', '2833.22.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['2073', '2833.24.00', '- - Of nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['2074', '2833.25.00', '- - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['2075', '2833.27.00', '- - Of barium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2833.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2076', '2833.29.20', '- - - Tribasic lead sulphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2077', '2833.29.30', '- - - Of chromium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2078', '2833.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2079', '2833.30.00', '- Alums', '0%', 'E0'], ['2080', '2833.40.00', '- Peroxosulphates (persulphates)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.34', 'Nitrites; nitrates.', '', ''], ['2081', '2834.10.00', '- Nitrites', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Nitrates :', '', ''], ['2082', '2834.21.00', '- - Of potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2834.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2083', '2834.29.10', '- - - Of bismuth', '0%', 'E0'], ['2084', '2834.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.35', 'Phosphinates (hypophosphites),\nphosphonates (phosphites) and\nphosphates; polyphosphates, whether\nor not chemically defined.', '', ''], ['2085', '2835.10.00', '- Phosphinates (hypophosphites) and\nphosphonates (phosphites)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Phosphates :', '', ''], ['2086', '2835.22.00', '- - Of mono- or disodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2087', '2835.24.00', '- - Of potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2835.25', '- - Calcium hydrogenorthophosphate\n(“dicalcium phosphate”) :', '', ''], ['2088', '2835.25.10', '- - - Feed grade', '0%', 'E0'], ['2089', '2835.25.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2090', '2835.26.00', '- - Other phosphates of calcium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2835.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2091', '2835.29.10', '- - - Of trisodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2092', '2835.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Polyphosphates :', '', ''], ['2093', '2835.31.00', '- - Sodium triphosphate (sodium\ntripolyphosphate)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '2835.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2094', '2835.39.10', '- - - Tetrasodium pyrophosphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2095', '2835.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.36', 'Carbonates; peroxocarbonates\n(percarbonates); commercial\nammonium carbonate containing\nammonium carbamate.', '', ''], ['2096', '2836.20.00', '- Disodium carbonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2097', '2836.30.00', '- Sodium hydrogencarbonate (sodium\nbicarbonate)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2098', '2836.40.00', '- Potassium carbonates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2836.50', '- Calcium carbonate :', '', ''], ['2099', '2836.50.10', '- - Food or pharmaceutical grade', '0%', 'E0'], ['2100', '2836.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['2101', '2836.60.00', '- Barium carbonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2102', '2836.91.00', '- - Lithium carbonates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2103', '2836.92.00', '- - Strontium carbonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2836.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2104', '2836.99.10', '- - - Commercial ammonium carbonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2105', '2836.99.20', '- - - Lead carbonates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2106', '2836.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.37', 'Cyanides, cyanide oxides and complex\ncyanides.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cyanides and cyanide oxides :', '', ''], ['2107', '2837.11.00', '- - Of sodium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2108', '2837.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2109', '2837.20.00', '- Complex cyanides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.39', 'Silicates; commercial alkali metal\nsilicates.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of sodium :', '', ''], ['2110', '2839.11.00', '- - Sodium metasilicates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2839.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2111', '2839.19.10', '- - - Sodium silicates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2112', '2839.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2113', '2839.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.40', 'Borates; peroxoborates (perborates).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Disodium tetraborate (refined borax) :', '', ''], ['2114', '2840.11.00', '- - Anhydrous', '0%', 'E0'], ['2115', '2840.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2116', '2840.20.00', '- Other borates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2117', '2840.30.00', '- Peroxoborates (perborates)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.41', 'Salts of oxometallic or peroxometallic\nacids.', '', ''], ['2118', '2841.30.00', '- Sodium dichromate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2119', '2841.50.00', '- Other chromates and dichromates;\nperoxochromates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Manganites, manganates and\npermanganates :', '', ''], ['2120', '2841.61.00', '- - Potassium permanganate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2121', '2841.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2122', '2841.70.00', '- Molybdates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2123', '2841.80.00', '- Tungstates (wolframates)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2124', '2841.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.42', 'Other salts of inorganic acids or\nperoxoacids (including aluminosilicates\nwhether or not chemically defined),\nother than azides.', '', ''], ['2125', '2842.10.00', '- Double or complex silicates, including\naluminosilicates whether or not\nchemically defined', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2842.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2126', '2842.90.10', '- - Sodium arsenite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2127', '2842.90.20', '- - Copper or chromium salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2128', '2842.90.30', '- - Other fulminates, cyanates and\nthiocyanates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2129', '2842.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER VI\nMISCELLANEOUS', '', ''], ['', '28.43', 'Colloidal precious metals; inorganic or\norganic compounds of precious metals,\nwhether or not chemically defined;\namalgams of precious metals.', '', ''], ['2130', '2843.10.00', '- Colloidal precious metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Silver compounds :', '', ''], ['2131', '2843.21.00', '- - Silver nitrate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2132', '2843.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2133', '2843.30.00', '- Gold compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2134', '2843.90.00', '- Other compounds; amalgams', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.44', 'Radioactive chemical elements and\nradioactive isotopes (including the\nfissile or fertile chemical elements and\nisotopes) and their compounds;\nmixtures and residues containing these\nproducts.', '', ''], ['', '2844.10', '- Natural uranium and its compounds;\nalloys, dispersions (including cermets),\nceramic products and mixtures containing\nnatural uranium or natural uranium\ncompounds :', '', ''], ['2135', '2844.10.10', '- - Natural uranium and its compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2136', '2844.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2844.20', '- Uranium enriched in U 235 and its\ncompounds; plutonium and its\ncompounds; alloys, dispersions (including\ncermets), ceramic products and mixtures\ncontaining uranium enriched in U 235,\nplutonium or compounds of these\nproducts :', '', ''], ['2137', '2844.20.10', '- - Uranium enriched in U 235 and its\ncompounds; plutonium and its compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2138', '2844.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2844.30', '- Uranium depleted in U 235 and its\ncompounds; thorium and its compounds;\nalloys, dispersions (including cermets),\nceramic products and mixtures containing\nuranium depleted in U 235, thorium or\ncompounds of these products :', '', ''], ['2139', '2844.30.10', '- - Uranium depleted in U 235 and its\ncompounds; thorium and its compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2140', '2844.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2844.40', '- Radioactive elements and isotopes and\ncompounds other than those of\nsubheading 2844.10, 2844.20 or 2844.30;\nalloys, dispersions (including cermets),\nceramic products and mixtures containing\nthese elements, isotopes or compounds;\nradioactive residues :', '', ''], ['2141', '2844.40.10', '- - Radioactive elements and isotopes and\ncompounds; Radioactive residues', '0%', 'E0'], ['2142', '2844.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2143', '2844.50.00', '- Spent (irradiated) fuel elements\n(cartridges) of nuclear reactors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.45', 'Isotopes other than those of heading\n28.44; compounds, inorganic or\norganic, of such isotopes, whether or\nnot chemically defined.', '', ''], ['2144', '2845.10.00', '- Heavy water (deuterium oxide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2145', '2845.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.46', 'Compounds, inorganic or organic, of\nrare-earth metals, of yttrium or of\nscandium or of mixtures of these\nmetals.', '', ''], ['2146', '2846.10.00', '- Cerium compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2147', '2846.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.47', 'Hydrogen peroxide, whether or not\nsolidified with urea.', '', ''], ['2148', '2847.00.10', '- In liquid form', '0%', 'E0'], ['2149', '2847.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.49', 'Carbides, whether or not chemically\ndefined.', '', ''], ['2150', '2849.10.00', '- Of calcium', '5%', 'EX'], ['2151', '2849.20.00', '- Of silicon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2152', '2849.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2153', '2850.00.00', 'Hydrides, nitrides, azides, silicides and\nborides, whether or not chemically\ndefined, other than compounds which\nare also carbides of heading 28.49.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.52', 'Inorganic or organic compounds of\nmercury, whether or not chemically\ndefined, excluding amalgams.', '', ''], ['', '2852.10', '- Chemically defined :', '', ''], ['2154', '2852.10.10', '- - Mercury sulphates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2155', '2852.10.20', '- - Mercury compounds of a kind used as\nluminophores', '0%', 'E0'], ['2156', '2852.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2852.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2157', '2852.90.10', '- - Mercury tannates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2158', '2852.90.20', '- - Mercury sulphides; mercury\npolysulphides; mercury polyphosphates;\nmercury carbides; heterocyclic mercury\ncompounds of subheading 2934.99.90;\nmercury peptone derivatives; other\nprotein derivatives of mercury', '0%', 'E0'], ['2159', '2852.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '28.53', 'Phosphides, whether or not chemically\ndefined, excluding ferrophosphorus;\nother inorganic compounds (including\ndistilled or conductivity water and\nwater of similar purity); liquid air\n(whether or not rare gases have been\nremoved); compressed air; amalgams,\nother than amalgams of precious\nmetals.', '', ''], ['2160', '2853.10.00', '- Cyanogen chloride (chlorcyan)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2853.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2161', '2853.90.10', '- - Demineralized waters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2162', '2853.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nHYDROCARBONS AND THEIR\nHALOGENATED, SULPHONATED,\nNITRATED OR NITROSATED\nDERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.01', 'Acyclic hydrocarbons.', '', ''], ['2163', '2901.10.00', '- Saturated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Unsaturated :', '', ''], ['2164', '2901.21.00', '- - Ethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2165', '2901.22.00', '- - Propene (propylene)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2166', '2901.23.00', '- - Butene (butylene) and isomers thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2167', '2901.24.00', '- - Buta-1,3-diene and isoprene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2901.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2168', '2901.29.10', '- - - Acetylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2169', '2901.29.20', '- - - Hexene and isomers thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2170', '2901.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.02', 'Cyclic hydrocarbons.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cyclanes, cyclenes and cycloterpenes :', '', ''], ['2171', '2902.11.00', '- - Cyclohexane', '0%', 'E0'], ['2172', '2902.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2173', '2902.20.00', '- Benzene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2174', '2902.30.00', '- Toluene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Xylenes :', '', ''], ['2175', '2902.41.00', '- - o-Xylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2176', '2902.42.00', '- - m-Xylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2177', '2902.43.00', '- - p-Xylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2178', '2902.44.00', '- - Mixed xylene isomers', '0%', 'E0'], ['2179', '2902.50.00', '- Styrene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2180', '2902.60.00', '- Ethylbenzene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2181', '2902.70.00', '- Cumene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2902.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2182', '2902.90.10', '- - Dodecylbenzene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2183', '2902.90.20', '- - Other alkylbenzenes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2184', '2902.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.03', 'Halogenated derivatives of\nhydrocarbons.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Saturated chlorinated derivatives of\nacyclic hydrocarbons :', '', ''], ['', '2903.11', '- - Chloromethane (methyl chloride) and\nchloroethane (ethyl chloride) :', '', ''], ['2185', '2903.11.10', '- - - Chloromethane (methyl chloride)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2186', '2903.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2187', '2903.12.00', '- - Dichloromethane (methylene chloride)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2188', '2903.13.00', '- - Chloroform (trichloromethane)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2189', '2903.14.00', '- - Carbon tetrachloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2190', '2903.15.00', '- - Ethylene dichloride (ISO) (1,2-\ndichloroethane)', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '2903.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2191', '2903.19.10', '- - - 1,2 - Dichloropropane (propylene\ndichloride) and dichlorobutanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2192', '2903.19.20', '- - - 1,1,1-Trichloroethane (methyl\nchloroform)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2193', '2903.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Unsaturated chlorinated derivatives of\nacyclic hydrocarbons :', '', ''], ['2194', '2903.21.00', '- - Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene)', '5%', 'E10'], ['2195', '2903.22.00', '- - Trichloroethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2196', '2903.23.00', '- - Tetrachloroethylene\n(perchloroethylene)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2197', '2903.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fluorinated, brominated or iodinated\nderivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons :', '', ''], ['2198', '2903.31.00', '- - Ethylene dibromide (ISO) (1,2-\ndibromoethane)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2903.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2199', '2903.39.10', '- - - Bromomethane (methyl bromide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2200', '2903.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Halogenated derivatives of acyclic\nhydrocarbons containing two or more\ndifferent halogens :', '', ''], ['2201', '2903.71.00', '- - Chlorodifluoromethane', '0%', 'E0'], ['2202', '2903.72.00', '- - Dichlorotrifluoroethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2203', '2903.73.00', '- - Dichlorofluoroethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2204', '2903.74.00', '- - Chlorodifluoroethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2205', '2903.75.00', '- - Dichloropentafluoropropanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2206', '2903.76.00', '- - Bromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane and\ndibromotetrafluoroethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2207', '2903.77.00', '- - Other, perhalogenated only with\nfluorine and chlorine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2208', '2903.78.00', '- - Other perhalogenated derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2209', '2903.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Halogenated derivatives of cyclanic,\ncyclenic or cycloterpenic hydrocarbons :', '', ''], ['2210', '2903.81.00', '- - 1,2,3,4,5,6-Hexachlorocyclohexane\n(HCH (ISO)), including lindane (ISO,\nINN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2211', '2903.82.00', '- - Aldrin (ISO), chlordane (ISO) and\nheptachlor (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2212', '2903.83.00', '- - Mirex (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2213', '2903.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Halogenated derivatives of aromatic\nhydrocarbons :', '', ''], ['2214', '2903.91.00', '- - Chlorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene and\np-dichlorobenzene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2215', '2903.92.00', '- - Hexachlorobenzene (ISO) and DDT\n(ISO) (clofenotane (INN), 1,1,1-trichloro-\n2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2216', '2903.93.00', '- - Pentachlorobenzene (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2217', '2903.94.00', '- - Hexabromobiphenyls', '0%', 'E0'], ['2218', '2903.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.04', 'Sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives of hydrocarbons, whether\nor not halogenated.', '', ''], ['2219', '2904.10.00', '- Derivatives containing only sulpho\ngroups, their salts and ethyl esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2904.20', '- Derivatives containing only nitro or only\nnitroso groups :', '', ''], ['2220', '2904.20.10', '- - Trinitrotoluene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2221', '2904.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Perfluorooctane sulphonic acid, its salts\nand perfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride :', '', ''], ['2222', '2904.31.00', '- - Perfluorooctane sulphonic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2223', '2904.32.00', '- - Ammonium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2224', '2904.33.00', '- - Lithium perfluorooctane sulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2225', '2904.34.00', '- - Potassium perfluorooctane sulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2226', '2904.35.00', '- - Other salts of perfluorooctane\nsulphonic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2227', '2904.36.00', '- - Perfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2228', '2904.91.00', '- - Trichloronitromethane (chloropicrin)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2229', '2904.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nALCOHOLS AND THEIR\nHALOGENATED, SULPHONATED,\nNITRATED OR NITROSATED\nDERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.05', 'Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Saturated monohydric alcohols :', '', ''], ['2230', '2905.11.00', '- - Methanol (methyl alcohol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2231', '2905.12.00', '- - Propan-1-ol (propyl alcohol) and\npropan-2-ol (isopropyl alcohol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2232', '2905.13.00', '- - Butan-1-ol (n-butyl alcohol)', '5%', 'E10'], ['2233', '2905.14.00', '- - Other butanols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2234', '2905.16.00', '- - Octanol (octyl alcohol) and isomers\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2235', '2905.17.00', '- - Dodecan-1-ol (lauryl alcohol),\nhexadecan-1-ol (cetyl alcohol) and\noctadecan-1-ol (stearyl alcohol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2236', '2905.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Unsaturated monohydric alcohols :', '', ''], ['2237', '2905.22.00', '- - Acyclic terpene alcohols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2238', '2905.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Diols :', '', ''], ['2239', '2905.31.00', '- - Ethylene glycol (ethanediol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2240', '2905.32.00', '- - Propylene glycol (propane-1,2-diol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2241', '2905.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other polyhydric alcohols :', '', ''], ['2242', '2905.41.00', '- - 2-Ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-\n1,3-diol (trimethylolpropane)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2243', '2905.42.00', '- - Pentaerythritol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2244', '2905.43.00', '- - Mannitol', '5%', 'E0'], ['2245', '2905.44.00', '- - D-glucitol (sorbitol)', '5%', 'EX'], ['2246', '2905.45.00', '- - Glycerol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2247', '2905.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives of acyclic alcohols :', '', ''], ['2248', '2905.51.00', '- - Ethchlorvynol (INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2249', '2905.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.06', 'Cyclic alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic :', '', ''], ['2250', '2906.11.00', '- - Menthol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2251', '2906.12.00', '- - Cyclohexanol, methylcyclohexanols\nand dimethylcyclohexanols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2252', '2906.13.00', '- - Sterols and inositols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2253', '2906.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic :', '', ''], ['2254', '2906.21.00', '- - Benzyl alcohol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2255', '2906.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER III\nPHENOLS, PHENOL-ALCOHOLS,\nAND THEIR HALOGENATED,\nSULPHONATED, NITRATED OR\nNITROSATED DERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.07', 'Phenols; phenol-alcohols.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Monophenols :', '', ''], ['2256', '2907.11.00', '- - Phenol (hydroxybenzene) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2257', '2907.12.00', '- - Cresols and their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2258', '2907.13.00', '- - Octylphenol, nonylphenol and their\nisomers; salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2259', '2907.15.00', '- - Naphthols and their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2260', '2907.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Polyphenols; phenol-alcohols :', '', ''], ['2261', '2907.21.00', '- - Resorcinol and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2262', '2907.22.00', '- - Hydroquinone (quinol) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2263', '2907.23.00', '- - 4,4’-Isopropylidenediphenol (bisphenol\nA, diphenylolpropane) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2907.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2264', '2907.29.10', '- - - Phenol-alcohols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2265', '2907.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.08', 'Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives of phenols or\nphenol-alcohols.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Derivatives containing only halogen\nsubstituents and their salts :', '', ''], ['2266', '2908.11.00', '- - Pentachlorophenol (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2267', '2908.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2268', '2908.91.00', '- - Dinoseb (ISO) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2269', '2908.92.00', '- - 4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol (DNOC (ISO))\nand its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2270', '2908.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER IV\nETHERS, ALCOHOL PEROXIDES,\nETHER PEROXIDES, KETONE\nPEROXIDES, EPOXIDES WITH A\nTHREE-MEMBERED RING,\nACETALS AND HEMIACETALS,\nAND THEIR HALOGENATED,\nSULPHONATED, NITRATED OR\nNITROSATED DERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.09', 'Ethers, ether-alcohols, ether-phenols,\nether-alcohol-phenols, alcohol\nperoxides, ether peroxides, ketone\nperoxides (whether or not chemically\ndefined), and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic ethers and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives :', '', ''], ['2271', '2909.11.00', '- - Diethyl ether', '0%', 'E0'], ['2272', '2909.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2273', '2909.20.00', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\nethers and their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2274', '2909.30.00', '- Aromatic ethers and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ether-alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives :', '', ''], ['2275', '2909.41.00', '- - 2,2’-Oxydiethanol (diethylene glycol,\ndigol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2276', '2909.43.00', '- - Monobutyl ethers of ethylene glycol or\nof diethylene glycol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2277', '2909.44.00', '- - Other monoalkylethers of ethylene\nglycol or of diethylene glycol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2278', '2909.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2279', '2909.50.00', '- Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols\nand their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2280', '2909.60.00', '- Alcohol peroxides, ether peroxides,\nketone peroxides and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.10', 'Epoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols\nand epoxyethers, with a three-\nmembered ring, and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['2281', '2910.10.00', '- Oxirane (ethylene oxide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2282', '2910.20.00', '- Methyloxirane (propylene oxide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2283', '2910.30.00', '- 1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane\n(epichlorohydrin)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2284', '2910.40.00', '- Dieldrin (ISO, INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2285', '2910.50.00', '- Endrin (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2286', '2910.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2287', '2911.00.00', 'Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or\nnot with other oxygen function, and\ntheir halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER V\nALDEHYDE-FUNCTION\nCOMPOUNDS', '', ''], ['', '29.12', 'Aldehydes, whether or not with other\noxygen function; cyclic polymers of\naldehydes; paraformaldehyde.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic aldehydes without other oxygen\nfunction :', '', ''], ['', '2912.11', '- - Methanal (formaldehyde) :', '', ''], ['2288', '2912.11.10', '- - - Formalin', '0%', 'E0'], ['2289', '2912.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2290', '2912.12.00', '- - Ethanal (acetaldehyde)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2291', '2912.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cyclic aldehydes without other oxygen\nfunction :', '', ''], ['2292', '2912.21.00', '- - Benzaldehyde', '0%', 'E0'], ['2293', '2912.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers,\naldehyde-phenols and aldehydes with\nother oxygen function :', '', ''], ['2294', '2912.41.00', '- - Vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-\nmethoxybenzaldehyde)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2295', '2912.42.00', '- - Ethylvanillin (3-ethoxy-4-\nhydroxybenzaldehyde)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2912.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2296', '2912.49.10', '- - - Other Aldehyde-alcohols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2297', '2912.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2298', '2912.50.00', '- Cyclic polymers of aldehydes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2299', '2912.60.00', '- Paraformaldehyde', '0%', 'E0'], ['2300', '2913.00.00', 'Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives of products of\nheading 29.12.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER VI\nKETONE-FUNCTION COMPOUNDS\nAND QUINONE-FUNCTION\nCOMPOUNDS', '', ''], ['', '29.14', 'Ketones and quinones, whether or not\nwith other oxygen function, and their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic ketones without other oxygen\nfunction :', '', ''], ['2301', '2914.11.00', '- - Acetone', '5%', 'E0'], ['2302', '2914.12.00', '- - Butanone (methyl ethyl ketone)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2303', '2914.13.00', '- - 4-Methylpentan-2-one (methyl isobutyl\nketone)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2304', '2914.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\nketones without other oxygen function :', '', ''], ['2305', '2914.22.00', '- - Cyclohexanone and\nmethylcyclohexanones', '0%', 'E0'], ['2306', '2914.23.00', '- - Ionones and methylionones', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2914.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2307', '2914.29.10', '- - - Camphor', '0%', 'E0'], ['2308', '2914.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic ketones without other oxygen\nfunction :', '', ''], ['2309', '2914.31.00', '- - Phenylacetone (phenylpropan-2-one)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2310', '2914.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2311', '2914.40.00', '- Ketone-alcohols and ketone-aldehydes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2312', '2914.50.00', '- Ketone-phenols and ketones with other\noxygen function', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Quinones :', '', ''], ['2313', '2914.61.00', '- - Anthraquinone', '0%', 'E0'], ['2314', '2914.62.00', '- - Coenzyme Q10 (ubidecarenone (INN))', '0%', 'E0'], ['2315', '2914.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives :', '', ''], ['2316', '2914.71.00', '- - Chlordecone (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2317', '2914.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER VII\nCARBOXYLIC ACIDS AND THEIR\nANHYDRIDES, HALIDES,\nPEROXIDES AND PEROXYACIDS\nAND THEIR HALOGENATED,\nSULPHONATED, NITRATED OR\nNITROSATED DERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.15', 'Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids\nand their anhydrides, halides,\nperoxides and peroxyacids; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Formic acid, its salts and esters :', '', ''], ['2318', '2915.11.00', '- - Formic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2319', '2915.12.00', '- - Salts of formic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2320', '2915.13.00', '- - Esters of formic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Acetic acid and its salts; acetic\nanhydride :', '', ''], ['2321', '2915.21.00', '- - Acetic acid', '5%', 'E10'], ['2322', '2915.24.00', '- - Acetic anhydride', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2915.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2323', '2915.29.10', '- - - Sodium acetate; cobalt acetates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2324', '2915.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Esters of acetic acid :', '', ''], ['2325', '2915.31.00', '- - Ethyl acetate', '5%', 'EX'], ['2326', '2915.32.00', '- - Vinyl acetate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2327', '2915.33.00', '- - n-Butyl acetate', '5%', 'E15'], ['2328', '2915.36.00', '- - Dinoseb (ISO) acetate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2915.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2329', '2915.39.10', '- - - Isobutyl acetate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2330', '2915.39.20', '- - - 2- Ethoxyethyl acetate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2331', '2915.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2332', '2915.40.00', '- Mono-, di- or trichloroacetic acids, their\nsalts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2333', '2915.50.00', '- Propionic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2334', '2915.60.00', '- Butanoic acids, pentanoic acids, their\nsalts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2915.70', '- Palmitic acid, stearic acid, their salts and\nesters :', '', ''], ['2335', '2915.70.10', '- - Palmitic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2336', '2915.70.20', '- - Stearic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2337', '2915.70.30', '- - Salts and esters of stearic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2915.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2338', '2915.90.10', '- - Acetyl chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2339', '2915.90.20', '- - Lauric acid, myristic acid, their salts\nand esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2340', '2915.90.30', '- - Caprylic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2341', '2915.90.40', '- - Capric acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2342', '2915.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.16', 'Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic\nacids, cyclic monocarboxylic acids,\ntheir anhydrides, halides, peroxides\nand peroxyacids; their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic\nacids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2343', '2916.11.00', '- - Acrylic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2344', '2916.12.00', '- - Esters of acrylic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2345', '2916.13.00', '- - Methacrylic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2916.14', '- - Esters of methacrylic acid :', '', ''], ['2346', '2916.14.10', '- - - Methyl methacrylate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2347', '2916.14.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2348', '2916.15.00', '- - Oleic, linoleic or linolenic acids, their\nsalts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2349', '2916.16.00', '- - Binapacryl (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2350', '2916.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2351', '2916.20.00', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\nmonocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2352', '2916.31.00', '- - Benzoic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2353', '2916.32.00', '- - Benzoyl peroxide and benzoyl chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2354', '2916.34.00', '- - Phenylacetic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2916.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2355', '2916.39.10', '- - - 2,4-Dichlorophenyl acetic acid and its\nsalts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2356', '2916.39.20', '- - - Esters of phenylacetic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2357', '2916.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.17', 'Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides and peroxyacids;\ntheir halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic polycarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2358', '2917.11.00', '- - Oxalic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2917.12', '- - Adipic acid, its salts and esters :', '', ''], ['2359', '2917.12.10', '- - - Dioctyl adipate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2360', '2917.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2361', '2917.13.00', '- - Azelaic acid, sebacic acid, their salts\nand esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2362', '2917.14.00', '- - Maleic anhydride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2363', '2917.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2364', '2917.20.00', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\npolycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic polycarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2365', '2917.32.00', '- - Dioctyl orthophthalates', '5%', 'EX'], ['2366', '2917.33.00', '- - Dinonyl or didecyl orthophthalates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2917.34', '- - Other esters of orthophthalic acid :', '', ''], ['2367', '2917.34.10', '- - - Dibutyl orthophthalates', '5%', 'EX'], ['2368', '2917.34.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['2369', '2917.35.00', '- - Phthalic anhydride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2370', '2917.36.00', '- - Terephthalic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2371', '2917.37.00', '- - Dimethyl terephthalate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2917.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2372', '2917.39.10', '- - - Trioctyltrimellitate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2373', '2917.39.20', '- - - Other phthalic compounds of a kind\nused as plasticisers and esters of phthalic\nanhydride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2374', '2917.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.18', 'Carboxylic acids with additional\noxygen function and their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides and peroxyacids;\ntheir halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Carboxylic acids with alcohol function\nbut without other oxygen function, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2375', '2918.11.00', '- - Lactic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2376', '2918.12.00', '- - Tartaric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2377', '2918.13.00', '- - Salts and esters of tartaric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2378', '2918.14.00', '- - Citric acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2918.15', '- - Salts and esters of citric acid :', '', ''], ['2379', '2918.15.10', '- - - Calcium citrate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2380', '2918.15.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2381', '2918.16.00', '- - Gluconic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2382', '2918.17.00', '- - 2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid\n(benzilic acid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2383', '2918.18.00', '- - Chlorobenzilate (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2384', '2918.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Carboxylic acids with phenol function\nbut without other oxygen function, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2385', '2918.21.00', '- - Salicylic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2386', '2918.22.00', '- - O-Acetylsalicylic acid, its salts and\nesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2387', '2918.23.00', '- - Other esters of salicylic acid and their\nsalts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2918.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2388', '2918.29.10', '- - - Alkyl sulphonic ester of phenol', '5%', 'E0'], ['2389', '2918.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2390', '2918.30.00', '- Carboxylic acids with aldehyde or\nketone function but without other oxygen\nfunction, their anhydrides, halides,\nperoxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2391', '2918.91.00', '- - 2,4,5-T (ISO) (2,4,5-\ntrichlorophenoxyacetic acid), its salts and\nesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['2392', '2918.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER VIII\nESTERS OF INORGANIC ACIDS OF\nNON-METALS AND THEIR SALTS,\nAND THEIR HALOGENATED,\nSULPHONATED, NITRATED OR\nNITROSATED DERIVATIVES.', '', ''], ['', '29.19', 'Phosphoric esters and their salts,\nincluding lactophosphates; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['2393', '2919.10.00', '- Tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2394', '2919.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.20', 'Esters of other inorganic acids of non-\nmetals (excluding esters of hydrogen\nhalides) and their salts; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Thiophosphoric esters\n(phosphorothioates) and their salts; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives :', '', ''], ['2395', '2920.11.00', '- - Parathion (ISO) and parathion-methyl\n(ISO) (methyl-parathion)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2396', '2920.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Phosphite esters and their salts; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives :', '', ''], ['2397', '2920.21.00', '- - Dimethyl phosphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2398', '2920.22.00', '- - Diethyl phosphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2399', '2920.23.00', '- - Trimethyl phosphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2400', '2920.24.00', '- - Triethyl phosphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2401', '2920.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2402', '2920.30.00', '- Endosulfan (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2403', '2920.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER IX\nNITROGEN-FUNCTION\nCOMPOUNDS', '', ''], ['', '29.21', 'Amine-function compounds.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic monoamines and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2404', '2921.11.00', '- - Methylamine, di- or trimethylamine\nand their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2405', '2921.12.00', '- - 2-(N,N-Dimethylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2406', '2921.13.00', '- - 2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2407', '2921.14.00', '- - 2-(N,N-\nDiisopropylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2408', '2921.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Acyclic polyamines and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2409', '2921.21.00', '- - Ethylenediamine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2410', '2921.22.00', '- - Hexamethylenediamine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2411', '2921.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2412', '2921.30.00', '- Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic\nmono- or polyamines, and their\nderivatives; salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic monoamines and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2413', '2921.41.00', '- - Aniline and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2414', '2921.42.00', '- - Aniline derivatives and their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2415', '2921.43.00', '- - Toluidines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2416', '2921.44.00', '- - Diphenylamine and its derivatives;\nsalts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2417', '2921.45.00', '- - 1-Naphthylamine (alpha-\nnaphthylamine), 2-naphthylamine (beta-\nnaphthylamine) and their derivatives; salts\ntherof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2418', '2921.46.00', '- - Amfetamine (INN), benzfetamine\n(INN), dexamfetamine (INN),\netilamfetamine (INN), fencamfamin\n(INN), lefetamine (INN), levamfetamine\n(INN), mefenorex (INN) and phentermine\n(INN); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2419', '2921.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Aromatic polyamines and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2420', '2921.51.00', '- - o-, m-, p-Phenylenediamine,\ndiaminotoluenes and their derivatives;\nsalts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2421', '2921.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.22', 'Oxygen-function amino-compounds.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Amino-alcohols, other than those\ncontaining more than one kind of oxygen\nfunction, their ethers and esters; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2422', '2922.11.00', '- - Monoethanolamine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2423', '2922.12.00', '- - Diethanolamine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2424', '2922.14.00', '- - Dextropropoxyphene (INN) and its\nsalts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2425', '2922.15.00', '- - Triethanolamine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2426', '2922.16.00', '- - Diethanolammonium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2427', '2922.17.00', '- - Methyldiethanolamine and\nethyldiethanolamine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2428', '2922.18.00', '- - 2-(N,N-Diisopropylamino)ethanol', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2922.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2429', '2922.19.10', '- - - Ethambutol and its salts, esters and\nother derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2430', '2922.19.20', '- - - D-2-Amino-n-butyl-alcohol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2431', '2922.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Amino-naphthols and other amino-\nphenols, other than those containing more\nthan one kind of oxygen function, their\nethers and esters; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2432', '2922.21.00', '- - Aminohydroxynaphthalenesulphonic\nacids and their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2433', '2922.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Amino-aldehydes, amino-ketones and\namino-quinones, other than those\ncontaining more than one kind of oxygen\nfunction; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2434', '2922.31.00', '- - Amfepramone (INN), methadone\n(INN) and normethadone (INN); salts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2435', '2922.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Amino-acids, other than those\ncontaining more than one kind of oxygen\nfunction, and their esters; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2436', '2922.41.00', '- - Lysine and its esters; salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2922.42', '- - Glutamic acid and its salts :', '', ''], ['2437', '2922.42.10', '- - - Glutamic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2438', '2922.42.20', '- - - Monosodium glutamate (MSG)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2439', '2922.42.90', '- - - Other salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2440', '2922.43.00', '- - Anthranilic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2441', '2922.44.00', '- - Tilidine (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2442', '2922.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2922.50', '- Amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-\nphenols and other amino-compounds with\noxygen function :', '', ''], ['2443', '2922.50.10', '- - p-Aminosalicylic acid and its salts,\nesters and other derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2444', '2922.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.23', 'Quaternary ammonium salts and\nhydroxides; lecithins and other\nphosphoaminolipids, whether or not\nchemically defined.', '', ''], ['2445', '2923.10.00', '- Choline and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2923.20', '- Lecithins and other\nphosphoaminolipids :', '', ''], ['2446', '2923.20.10', '- - Lecithins, whether or not chemically\ndefined', '0%', 'E0'], ['2447', '2923.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2448', '2923.30.00', '- Tetraethylammonium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2449', '2923.40.00', '- Didecyldimethylammonium\nperfluorooctane sulphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2450', '2923.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.24', 'Carboxyamide-function compounds;\namide-function compounds of carbonic\nacid.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Acyclic amides (including acyclic\ncarbamates) and their derivatives; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2451', '2924.11.00', '- - Meprobamate (INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2924.12', '- - Fluoroacetamide (ISO),\nmonocrotophos (ISO) and phosphamidon\n(ISO) :', '', ''], ['2452', '2924.12.10', '- - - Fluoroacetamide (ISO) and\nphosphamidon (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2453', '2924.12.20', '- - - Monocrotophos (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2924.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2454', '2924.19.10', '- - - Carisophrodol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2455', '2924.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cyclic amides (including cyclic\ncarbamates) and their derivatives; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['', '2924.21', '- - Ureines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2456', '2924.21.10', '- - - 4-Ethoxyphenylurea (dulcin)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2457', '2924.21.20', '- - - Diuron and monuron', '0%', 'E0'], ['2458', '2924.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2459', '2924.23.00', '- - 2-Acetamidobenzoic acid (N-\nacetylanthranilic acid) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2460', '2924.24.00', '- - Ethinamate (INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2461', '2924.25.00', '- - Alachlor (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2924.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2462', '2924.29.10', '- - - Aspartame', '0%', 'E0'], ['2463', '2924.29.20', '- - - Butylphenylmethyl carbamate;\nmethyl isopropyl phenyl carbamate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2464', '2924.29.30', '- - - Acetaminophen (paracetamol);\nsalicylamide; ethoxybenzamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2465', '2924.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.25', 'Carboxyimide-function compounds\n(including saccharin and its salts) and\nimine-function compounds.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Imides and their derivatives; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2466', '2925.11.00', '- - Saccharin and its salts', '5%', 'EX'], ['2467', '2925.12.00', '- - Glutethimide (INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2468', '2925.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Imines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2469', '2925.21.00', '- - Chlordimeform (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2470', '2925.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.26', 'Nitrile-function compounds.', '', ''], ['2471', '2926.10.00', '- Acrylonitrile', '0%', 'E0'], ['2472', '2926.20.00', '- 1-Cyanoguanidine (dicyandiamide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2473', '2926.30.00', '- Fenproporex (INN) and its salts;\nmethadone (INN) intermediate (4-cyano-\n2-dimethylamino-4, 4-diphenylbutane)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2474', '2926.40.00', '- alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile', '0%', 'E0'], ['2475', '2926.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.27', 'Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds.', '', ''], ['2476', '2927.00.10', '- Azodicarbonamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2477', '2927.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.28', 'Organic derivatives of hydrazine or of\nhydroxylamine.', '', ''], ['2478', '2928.00.10', '- Linuron', '0%', 'E0'], ['2479', '2928.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.29', 'Compounds with other nitrogen\nfunction.', '', ''], ['', '2929.10', '- Isocyanates :', '', ''], ['2480', '2929.10.10', '- - Diphenylmethane diisocyanate (MDI)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2481', '2929.10.20', '- - Toluene diisocyanate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2482', '2929.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2929.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2483', '2929.90.10', '- - Sodium cyclamate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2484', '2929.90.20', '- - Other cyclamates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2485', '2929.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER X\nORGANO-INORGANIC\nCOMPOUNDS, HETEROCYCLIC\nCOMPOUNDS, NUCLEIC ACIDS\nAND THEIR SALTS, AND\nSULPHONAMIDES', '', ''], ['', '29.30', 'Organo-sulphur compounds.', '', ''], ['2486', '2930.20.00', '- Thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2487', '2930.30.00', '- Thiuram mono-, di- or tetrasulphides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2488', '2930.40.00', '- Methionine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2489', '2930.60.00', '- 2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethanethiol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2490', '2930.70.00', '- Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide (thiodiglycol\n(INN))', '0%', 'E0'], ['2491', '2930.80.00', '- Aldicarb (ISO), captafol (ISO) and\nmethamidophos (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2930.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2492', '2930.90.10', '- - Dithiocarbonates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2493', '2930.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.31', 'Other organo-inorganic compounds.', '', ''], ['', '2931.10', '- Tetramethyl lead and tetraethyl lead :', '', ''], ['2494', '2931.10.10', '- - Tetramethyl lead', '0%', 'E0'], ['2495', '2931.10.20', '- - Tetraethyl lead', '0%', 'E0'], ['2496', '2931.20.00', '- Tributyltin compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other organo-phosphorous derivatives :', '', ''], ['2497', '2931.31.00', '- - Dimethyl methylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2498', '2931.32.00', '- - Dimethyl propylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2499', '2931.33.00', '- - Diethyl ethylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2500', '2931.34.00', '- - Sodium 3-(trihydroxysilyl)propyl\nmethylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2501', '2931.35.00', '- - 2,4,6-Tripropyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-\ntrioxatriphosphinane 2,4,6-trioxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2502', '2931.36.00', '- - (5-Ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl methyl\nmethylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2503', '2931.37.00', '- - Bis[(5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl]\nmethylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2504', '2931.38.00', '- - Salt of methylphosphonic acid and\n(aminoiminomethyl)urea (1 : 1)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2505', '2931.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2931.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - N-(phosphonomethyl) glycine and salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2506', '2931.90.21', '- - - N-(phosphonomethyl) glycine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2507', '2931.90.22', '- - - Salts of N-(phosphonomethyl)\nglycine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2508', '2931.90.30', '- - Ethephone', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Organo-arsenic compounds :', '', ''], ['2509', '2931.90.41', '- - - In liquid form', '0%', 'E0'], ['2510', '2931.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2511', '2931.90.50', '- - Dimethyltin dichloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2512', '2931.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.32', 'Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen\nhetero-atom(s) only.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Compounds containing an unfused furan\nring (whether or not hydrogenated) in the\nstructure :', '', ''], ['2513', '2932.11.00', '- - Tetrahydrofuran', '0%', 'E0'], ['2514', '2932.12.00', '- - 2-Furaldehyde (furfuraldehyde)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2515', '2932.13.00', '- - Furfuryl alcohol and tetrahydrofurfuryl\nalcohol', '0%', 'E0'], ['2516', '2932.14.00', '- - Sucralose', '0%', 'E0'], ['2517', '2932.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2932.20', '- Lactones :', '', ''], ['2518', '2932.20.10', '- - Coumarin N-(1,2-Benzopyrone)\nmethylcoumarins and ethyl-coumarin', '0%', 'E0'], ['2519', '2932.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2520', '2932.91.00', '- - Isosafrole', '0%', 'E0'], ['2521', '2932.92.00', '- - 1-(1,3-Benzodioxol-5-yl)propan-2-one', '0%', 'E0'], ['2522', '2932.93.00', '- - Piperonal', '0%', 'E0'], ['2523', '2932.94.00', '- - Safrole', '0%', 'E0'], ['2524', '2932.95.00', '- - Tetrahydrocannabinols (all isomers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2932.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2525', '2932.99.10', '- - - Carbofuran', '0%', 'E0'], ['2526', '2932.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.33', 'Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen\nhetero-atom(s) only.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Compounds containing an unfused\npyrazole ring (whether or not\nhydrogenated) in the structure :', '', ''], ['2527', '2933.11.00', '- - Phenazone (antipyrin) and its\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2528', '2933.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Compounds containing an unfused\nimidazole ring (whether or not\nhydrogenated) in the structure :', '', ''], ['2529', '2933.21.00', '- - Hydantoin and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2530', '2933.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Compounds containing an unfused\npyridine ring (whether or not\nhydrogenated) in the structure :', '', ''], ['2531', '2933.31.00', '- - Pyridine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2532', '2933.32.00', '- - Piperidine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2533', '2933.33.00', '- - Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN),\nbezitramide (INN), bromazepam (INN),\ndifenoxin (INN), diphenoxylate (INN),\ndipipanone (INN), fentanyl (INN),\nketobemidone (INN), methylphenidate\n(INN), pentazocine (INN), pethidine\n(INN), pethidine (INN) intermediate A,\nphencyclidine (INN) (PCP),\nphenoperidine (INN), pipradrol (INN),\npiritramide (INN), propiram (INN) and\ntrimeperidine (INN); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2933.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2534', '2933.39.10', '- - - Chlorpheniramine and isoniazid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2535', '2933.39.30', '- - - Paraquat salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2536', '2933.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Compounds containing in the structure a\nquinoline or isoquinoline ring-system\n(whether or not hydrogenated), not further\nfused :', '', ''], ['2537', '2933.41.00', '- - Levorphanol (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2933.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2538', '2933.49.10', '- - - Dextromethorphan', '0%', 'E0'], ['2539', '2933.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Compounds containing a pyrimidine\nring (whether or not hydrogenated) or\npiperazine ring in the structure :', '', ''], ['2540', '2933.52.00', '- - Malonylurea (barbituric acid) and its\nsalts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2541', '2933.53.00', '- - Allobarbital (INN), amobarbital (INN),\nbarbital (INN), butalbital (INN),\nbutobarbital, cyclobarbital (INN),\nmethylphenobarbital (INN), pentobarbital\n(INN), phenobarbital (INN),\nsecbutabarbital (INN), secobarbital (INN)\nand vinylbital (INN); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2542', '2933.54.00', '- - Other derivatives of malonylurea\n(barbituric acid); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2543', '2933.55.00', '- - Loprazolam (INN), mecloqualone\n(INN), methaqualone (INN) and zipeprol\n(INN); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2933.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2544', '2933.59.10', '- - - Diazinon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2545', '2933.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Compounds containing an unfused\ntriazine ring (whether or not\nhydrogenated) in the structure :', '', ''], ['2546', '2933.61.00', '- - Melamine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2547', '2933.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Lactams :', '', ''], ['2548', '2933.71.00', '- - 6-Hexanelactam (epsilon-caprolactam)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2549', '2933.72.00', '- - Clobazam (INN) and methyprylon\n(INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2550', '2933.79.00', '- - Other lactams', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2551', '2933.91.00', '- - Alprazolam (INN), camazepam (INN),\nchlordiazepoxide (INN), clonazepam\n(INN), clorazepate, delorazepam (INN),\ndiazepam (INN), estazolam (INN), ethyl\nloflazepate (INN), fludiazepam (INN),\nflunitrazepam (INN), flurazepam (INN),\nhalazepam (INN), lorazepam (INN),\nlormetazepam (INN), mazindol (INN),\nmedazepam (INN), midazolam (INN),\nnimetazepam (INN), nitrazepam (INN),\nnordazepam (INN), oxazepam (INN),\npinazepam (INN), prazepam (INN),\npyrovalerone (INN), temazepam (INN),\ntetrazepam (INN) and triazolam (INN);\nsalts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2552', '2933.92.00', '- - Azinphos-methyl (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2933.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2553', '2933.99.10', '- - - Mebendazole and parbendazole', '0%', 'E0'], ['2554', '2933.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.34', 'Nucleic acids and their salts, whether\nor not chemically defined; other\nheterocyclic compounds.', '', ''], ['2555', '2934.10.00', '- Compounds containing an unfused\nthiazole ring (whether or not\nhydrogenated) in the structure', '0%', 'E0'], ['2556', '2934.20.00', '- Compounds containing in the structure a\nbenzothiazole ring-system (whether or not\nhydrogenated), not further fused', '0%', 'E0'], ['2557', '2934.30.00', '- Compounds containing in the structure a\nphenothiazine ring-system (whether or not\nhydrogenated), not further fused', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2558', '2934.91.00', '- - Aminorex (INN), brotizolam (INN),\nclotiazepam (INN), cloxazolam (INN),\ndextromoramide (INN), haloxazolam\n(INN), ketazolam (INN), mesocarb\n(INN), oxazolam (INN), pemoline (INN),\nphendimetrazine (INN), phenmetrazine\n(INN) and sufentanil (INN); salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2934.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2559', '2934.99.10', '- - - Nucleic acids and their salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2560', '2934.99.20', '- - - Sultones; sultams; diltiazem', '5%', 'E10'], ['2561', '2934.99.30', '- - - 6-Aminopenicillanic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2562', '2934.99.40', '- - - 3-Azido-3-deoxythymidine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2563', '2934.99.50', '- - - Oxadiazon, with a purity of 94 % or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['2564', '2934.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.35', 'Sulphonamides.', '', ''], ['2565', '2935.10.00', '- N-Methylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2566', '2935.20.00', '- N-Ethylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2567', '2935.30.00', '- N-Ethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl)\nperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2568', '2935.40.00', '- N-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-N-\nmethylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2569', '2935.50.00', '- Other perfluorooctane sulphonamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2570', '2935.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER XI\nPROVITAMINS, VITAMINS AND\nHORMONES', '', ''], ['', '29.36', 'Provitamins and vitamins, natural or\nreproduced by synthesis (including\nnatural concentrates), derivatives\nthereof used primarily as vitamins, and\nintermixtures of the foregoing, whether\nor not in any solvent.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Vitamins and their derivatives,\nunmixed :', '', ''], ['2571', '2936.21.00', '- - Vitamin A and their derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2572', '2936.22.00', '- - Vitamin B1 and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2573', '2936.23.00', '- - Vitamin B2 and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2574', '2936.24.00', '- - D- or DL-Pantothenic acid (Vitamin\nB3 or Vitamin B5) and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2575', '2936.25.00', '- - Vitamin B6 and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2576', '2936.26.00', '- - Vitamin B12 and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2577', '2936.27.00', '- - Vitamin C and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2578', '2936.28.00', '- - Vitamin E and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2579', '2936.29.00', '- - Other vitamins and their derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2580', '2936.90.00', '- Other, including natural concentrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.37', 'Hormones, prostaglandins,\nthromboxanes and leukotrienes,\nnatural or reproduced by synthesis;\nderivatives and structural analogues\nthereof, including chain modified\npolypeptides, used primarily as\nhormones.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Polypeptide hormones, protein\nhormones and glycoprotein hormones,\ntheir derivatives and structural analogues :', '', ''], ['2581', '2937.11.00', '- - Somatotropin, its derivatives and\nstructural analogues', '0%', 'E0'], ['2582', '2937.12.00', '- - Insulin and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2583', '2937.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Steroidal hormones, their derivatives\nand structural analogues :', '', ''], ['2584', '2937.21.00', '- - Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone\n(dehydrocortisone) and prednisolone\n(dehydrohydrocortisone)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2585', '2937.22.00', '- - Halogenated derivatives of\ncorticosteroidal hormones', '0%', 'E0'], ['2586', '2937.23.00', '- - Oestrogens and progestogens', '0%', 'E0'], ['2587', '2937.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2588', '2937.50.00', '- Prostaglandins, thromboxanes and\nleukotrienes, their derivatives and\nstructural analogues', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2937.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2589', '2937.90.10', '- - Of oxygen-function amino-compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2590', '2937.90.20', '- - Epinephrine; amino-acid derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2591', '2937.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER XII\nGLYCOSIDES AND ALKALOIDS,\nNATURAL OR REPRODUCED BY\nSYNTHESIS, AND THEIR SALTS,\nETHERS, ESTERS AND OTHER\nDERIVATIVES', '', ''], ['', '29.38', 'Glycosides, natural or reproduced by\nsynthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters\nand other derivatives.', '', ''], ['2592', '2938.10.00', '- Rutoside (rutin) and its derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2593', '2938.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.39', 'Alkaloids, natural or reproduced by\nsynthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters\nand other derivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Alkaloids of opium and their derivatives;\nsalts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '2939.11', '- - Concentrates of poppy straw;\nbuprenorphine (INN), codeine,\ndihydrocodeine (INN), ethylmorphine,\netorphine (INN), heroin, hydrocodone\n(INN), hydromorphone (INN), morphine,\nnicomorphine (INN), oxycodone (INN),\noxymorphone (INN), pholcodine (INN),\nthebacon (INN) and thebaine; salts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2594', '2939.11.10', '- - - Concentrates of poppy straw and salts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2595', '2939.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2596', '2939.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2939.20', '- Alkaloids of cinchona and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2597', '2939.20.10', '- - Quinine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2598', '2939.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2599', '2939.30.00', '- Caffeine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ephedrines and their salts :', '', ''], ['2600', '2939.41.00', '- - Ephedrine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2601', '2939.42.00', '- - Pseudoephedrine (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2602', '2939.43.00', '- - Cathine (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2603', '2939.44.00', '- - Norephedrine and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '2939.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2604', '2939.49.10', '- - - Phenylpropanolamine (PPA)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2605', '2939.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Theophylline and aminophylline\n(theophylline- ethylenediamine) and their\nderivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2606', '2939.51.00', '- - Fenetylline (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2607', '2939.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Alkaloids of rye ergot and their', '', ''], ['', '', 'derivatives; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['2608', '2939.61.00', '- - Ergometrine (INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2609', '2939.62.00', '- - Ergotamine(INN) and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2610', '2939.63.00', '- - Lysergic acid and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2611', '2939.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of vegetal origin :', '', ''], ['2612', '2939.71.00', '- - Cocaine, ecgonine,\nlevometamfetamine, metamfetamine\n(INN), metamfetamine racemate; salts,\nesters and other derivatives thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2613', '2939.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2614', '2939.80.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER XIII\nOTHER ORGANIC COMPOUNDS', '', ''], ['2615', '2940.00.00', 'Sugars, chemically pure, other than\nsucrose, lactose, maltose, glucose and\nfructose; sugar ethers, sugar acetals\nand sugar esters, and their salts, other\nthan products of heading 29.37, 29.38\nor 29.39.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '29.41', 'Antibiotics.', '', ''], ['', '2941.10', '- Penicillins and their derivatives with a\npenicillanic acid structure; salts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Amoxicillin and its salts :', '', ''], ['2616', '2941.10.11', '- - - Non-sterile', '5%', 'EX'], ['2617', '2941.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2618', '2941.10.20', '- - Ampicillin and its salts', '5%', 'EX'], ['2619', '2941.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2620', '2941.20.00', '- Streptomycins and their derivatives;\nsalts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2621', '2941.30.00', '- Tetracyclines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2622', '2941.40.00', '- Chloramphenicol and its derivatives;\nsalts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2623', '2941.50.00', '- Erythromycin and its derivatives; salts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2624', '2941.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2625', '2942.00.00', 'Other organic compounds.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.01', 'Glands and other organs for organo-\ntherapeutic uses, dried, whether or not\npowdered; extracts of glands or other\norgans or of their secretions for organo-\ntherapeutic uses; heparin and its salts;\nother human or animal substances\nprepared for therapeutic or\nprophylactic uses, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', ''], ['2626', '3001.20.00', '- Extracts of glands or other organs or of\ntheir secretions', '0%', 'E0'], ['2627', '3001.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.02', 'Human blood; animal blood prepared\nfor therapeutic, prophylactic or\ndiagnostic uses; antisera, other blood\nfractions and immunological products,\nwhether or not modified or obtained by\nmeans of biotechnological processes;\nvaccines, toxins, cultures of micro-\norganisms (excluding yeasts) and\nsimilar products.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Antisera, other blood fractions and\nimmunological products, whether or not\nmodified or obtained by means of\nbiotechnological processes :', '', ''], ['2628', '3002.11.00', '- - Malaria diagnostic test kits', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3002.12', '- - Antisera and other blood fractions :', '', ''], ['2629', '3002.12.10', '- - - Antisera; plasma protein solutions;\nhaemoglobin powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['2630', '3002.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2631', '3002.13.00', '- - Immunological products, unmixed, not\nput up in measured doses or in forms or\npackings for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['2632', '3002.14.00', '- - Immunological products, mixed, not\nput up in measured doses or in forms or\npackings for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['2633', '3002.15.00', '- - Immunological products, put up in\nmeasured doses or in forms or packings\nfor retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['2634', '3002.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3002.20', '- Vaccines for human medicine :', '', ''], ['2635', '3002.20.10', '- - Tetanus toxoid', '0%', 'E0'], ['2636', '3002.20.20', '- - Pertussis, measles, meningitis or polio\nvaccines', '0%', 'E0'], ['2637', '3002.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2638', '3002.30.00', '- Vaccines for veterinary medicine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2639', '3002.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.03', 'Medicaments (excluding goods of\nheading 30.02, 30.05 or 30.06)\nconsisting of two or more constituents\nwhich have been mixed together for\ntherapeutic or prophylactic uses, not\nput up in measured doses or in forms or\npackings for retail sale.', '', ''], ['', '3003.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives\nthereof, with a penicillanic acid structure,\nor streptomycins or their derivatives :', '', ''], ['2640', '3003.10.10', '- - Containing amoxicillin (INN) or its\nsalts', '5%', 'EX'], ['2641', '3003.10.20', '- - Containing ampicillin (INN) or its salts', '5%', 'EX'], ['2642', '3003.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['2643', '3003.20.00', '- Other, containing antibiotics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, containing hormones or other\nproducts of heading 29.37 :', '', ''], ['2644', '3003.31.00', '- - Containing insulin', '0%', 'E0'], ['2645', '3003.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, containing alkaloids or\nderivatives thereof :', '', ''], ['2646', '3003.41.00', '- - Containing ephedrine or its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2647', '3003.42.00', '- - Containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or\nits salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2648', '3003.43.00', '- - Containing norephedrine or its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2649', '3003.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2650', '3003.60.00', '- Other, containing antimalarial active\nprinciples described in Subheading Note 2\nto this Chapter', '0%', 'E0'], ['2651', '3003.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.04', 'Medicaments (excluding goods of\nheading 30.02, 30.05 or 30.06)\nconsisting of mixed or unmixed\nproducts for therapeutic or\nprophylactic uses, put up in measured\ndoses (including those in the form of\ntransdermal administration systems) or\nin forms or packings for retail sale.', '', ''], ['', '3004.10', '- Containing penicillins or derivatives\nthereof, with a penicillanic acid structure,\nor streptomycins or their derivatives :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing penicillins or derivatives\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2652', '3004.10.15', '- - - Containing penicillin G (excluding\npenicillin G benzathine), phenoxymethyl\npenicillin or salts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2653', '3004.10.16', '- - - Containing ampicillin, amoxycillin or\nsalts thereof, of a kind taken orally', '5%', 'EX'], ['2654', '3004.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Containing streptomycins or\nderivatives thereof :', '', ''], ['2655', '3004.10.21', '- - - In ointment form', '0%', 'E0'], ['2656', '3004.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.20', '- Other, containing antibiotics :', '', ''], ['2657', '3004.20.10', '- - Containing gentamycin, lincomycin,\nsulfamethoxazole or their derivatives, of a\nkind taken orally or in ointment form', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Containing erythromycin or derivatives\nthereof :', '', ''], ['2658', '3004.20.31', '- - - Of a kind taken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2659', '3004.20.32', '- - - In ointment form', '0%', 'E0'], ['2660', '3004.20.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Containing tetracyclines or\nchloramphenicols or derivatives thereof :', '', ''], ['2661', '3004.20.71', '- - - Of a kind taken orally or in ointment\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['2662', '3004.20.79', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2663', '3004.20.91', '- - - Of a kind taken orally or in ointment\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['2664', '3004.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, containing hormones or other\nproducts of heading 29.37 :', '', ''], ['2665', '3004.31.00', '- - Containing insulin', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.32', '- - Containing corticosteroid hormones,\ntheir derivatives or structural analogues :', '', ''], ['2666', '3004.32.10', '- - - Containing dexamethasone or their\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2667', '3004.32.40', '- - - Containing hydrocortisone sodium\nsuccinate or fluocinolone acetonide', '0%', 'E0'], ['2668', '3004.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2669', '3004.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, containing alkaloids or\nderivatives thereof :', '', ''], ['2670', '3004.41.00', '- - Containing ephedrine or its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2671', '3004.42.00', '- - Containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or\nits salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['2672', '3004.43.00', '- - Containing norephedrine or its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2673', '3004.49.10', '- - - Containing morphine or its\nderivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2674', '3004.49.50', '- - - Containing papaverine or berberine,\nof a kind taken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2675', '3004.49.60', '- - - Containing theophyline, of a kind\ntaken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2676', '3004.49.70', '- - - Containing atropine sulphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2677', '3004.49.80', '- - - Containing quinine hydrochloride or\ndihydroquinine chloride, for injection;\nContaining quinine sulphate or bisulphate,\nof a kind taken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2678', '3004.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.50', '- Other, containing vitamins or other\nproducts of heading 29.36 :', '', ''], ['2679', '3004.50.10', '- - Of a kind suitable for children, in syrup\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, containing more than one\nvitamin :', '', ''], ['2680', '3004.50.21', '- - - Of a kind taken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2681', '3004.50.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2682', '3004.50.91', '- - - Containing vitamin A, B or C', '0%', 'E0'], ['2683', '3004.50.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.60', '- Other, containing antimalarial active\nprinciples described in Subheading Note 2\nto this Chapter :', '', ''], ['2684', '3004.60.10', '- - Containing artemisinin combined with\nother pharmaceutical active ingredients', '0%', 'E0'], ['2685', '3004.60.20', '- - Containing artesunate or chloroquine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2686', '3004.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3004.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2687', '3004.90.10', '- - Transdermal therapeutic system\npatches for the treatment of cancer or', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'heart diseases', '', ''], ['2688', '3004.90.20', '- - Closed sterile water for inhalation,\npharmaceutical grade', '0%', 'E0'], ['2689', '3004.90.30', '- - Antiseptics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Anaesthetics :', '', ''], ['2690', '3004.90.41', '- - - Containing procaine hydrochloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2691', '3004.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Analgesics, antipyretics and other\nmedicaments for the treatment of coughs\nor colds, whether or not containing\nantihistamines :', '', ''], ['2692', '3004.90.51', '- - - Containing acetylsalicylic acid,\nparacetamol or dipyrone (INN), of a kind\ntaken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2693', '3004.90.52', '- - - Containing chlorpheniramine maleate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2694', '3004.90.53', '- - - Containing diclofenac, of a kind\ntaken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2695', '3004.90.54', '- - - Containing piroxicam (INN) or\nibuprofen', '0%', 'E0'], ['2696', '3004.90.55', '- - - Other, in liniment form', '0%', 'E0'], ['2697', '3004.90.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Antimalarials :', '', ''], ['2698', '3004.90.62', '- - - Containing primaquine', '0%', 'E0'], ['2699', '3004.90.64', '- - - Containing artemisinin other than of\nsubheading 3004.60.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['2700', '3004.90.65', '- - - - Herbal medicaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2701', '3004.90.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Anthelmintic :', '', ''], ['2702', '3004.90.71', '- - - Containing piperazine or\nmebendazole (INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['2703', '3004.90.72', '- - - - Herbal medicaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2704', '3004.90.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other medicaments for the treatment of\ncancer, HIV/AIDS or other intractable\ndiseases :', '', ''], ['2705', '3004.90.81', '- - - Containing deferoxamine, for\ninjection', '0%', 'E0'], ['2706', '3004.90.82', '- - - Anti HIV/AIDS medicaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2707', '3004.90.89', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2708', '3004.90.91', '- - - Containing sodium chloride or\nglucose, for infusion', '0%', 'E0'], ['2709', '3004.90.92', '- - - Containing sorbitol or salbutamol, for\ninfusion', '0%', 'E0'], ['2710', '3004.90.93', '- - - Containing sorbitol or salbutamol, in\nother forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['2711', '3004.90.94', '- - - Containing cimetidine (INN) or\nranitidine (INN) other than for injection', '0%', 'E0'], ['2712', '3004.90.95', '- - - Containing phenobarbital, diazepam\nor chlorpromazine, other than for\ninjection or infusion', '0%', 'E0'], ['2713', '3004.90.96', '- - - Nasal-drop medicaments containing\nnaphazoline, xylometazoline or\noxymetazoline', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['2714', '3004.90.98', '- - - - Herbal medicaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2715', '3004.90.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.05', 'Wadding, gauze, bandages and similar\narticles (for example, dressings,\nadhesive plasters, poultices),\nimpregnated or coated with\npharmaceutical substances or put up in\nforms or packings for retail sale for\nmedical, surgical, dental or veterinary\npurposes.', '', ''], ['', '3005.10', '- Adhesive dressings and other articles\nhaving an adhesive layer :', '', ''], ['2716', '3005.10.10', '- - Impregnated or coated with\npharmaceutical substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['2717', '3005.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3005.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2718', '3005.90.10', '- - Bandages', '0%', 'E0'], ['2719', '3005.90.20', '- - Gauze', '0%', 'E0'], ['2720', '3005.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '30.06', 'Pharmaceutical goods specified in Note\n4 to this Chapter.', '', ''], ['', '3006.10', '- Sterile surgical catgut, similar sterile\nsuture materials (including sterile\nabsorbable surgical or dental yarns) and\nsterile tissue adhesives for surgical wound\nclosure; sterile laminaria and sterile\nlaminaria tents; sterile absorbable surgical\nor dental haemostatics; sterile surgical or\ndental adhesion barriers, whether or not\nabsorbable :', '', ''], ['2721', '3006.10.10', '- - Sterile absorbable surgical or dental\nyarn; sterile surgical or dental adhesion\nbarriers, whether or not absorbable', '0%', 'E0'], ['2722', '3006.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2723', '3006.20.00', '- Blood-grouping reagents', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3006.30', '- Opacifying preparations for X-ray\nexaminations; diagnostic reagents\ndesigned to be administered to the\npatient :', '', ''], ['2724', '3006.30.10', '- - Barium sulphate, of a kind taken orally', '0%', 'E0'], ['2725', '3006.30.20', '- - Reagents of microbial origin, of a kind\nsuitable for veterinary biological\ndiagnosis', '0%', 'E0'], ['2726', '3006.30.30', '- - Other microbial diagnostic reagents', '0%', 'E0'], ['2727', '3006.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3006.40', '- Dental cements and other dental fillings;\nbone reconstruction cements :', '', ''], ['2728', '3006.40.10', '- - Dental cements and other dental\nfillings', '0%', 'E0'], ['2729', '3006.40.20', '- - Bone reconstruction cements', '0%', 'E0'], ['2730', '3006.50.00', '- First-aid boxes and kits', '0%', 'E0'], ['2731', '3006.60.00', '- Chemical contraceptive preparations\nbased on hormones, on other products of\nheading 29.37 or on spermicides', '0%', 'E0'], ['2732', '3006.70.00', '- Gel preparations designed to be used in\nhuman or veterinary medicine as a\nlubricant for parts of the body for surgical\noperations or physical examinations or as\na coupling agent between the body and\nmedical instruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2733', '3006.91.00', '- - Appliances identifiable for ostomy use', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3006.92', '- - Waste pharmaceuticals :', '', ''], ['2734', '3006.92.10', '- - - Of medicaments for the treatment of\ncancer, HIV/AIDS or other intractable\ndiseases', '15%', 'EX'], ['2735', '3006.92.90', '- - - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '31.01', 'Animal or vegetable fertilisers, whether\nor not mixed together or chemically\ntreated; fertilisers produced by the\nmixing or chemical treatment of animal\nor vegetable products.', '', ''], ['2736', '3101.00.10', '- Of solely vegetable origin', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2737', '3101.00.92', '- - Of animal origin (other than guano),\nchemically treated', '0%', 'E0'], ['2738', '3101.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '31.02', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers,\nnitrogenous.', '', ''], ['2739', '3102.10.00', '- Urea, whether or not in aqueous solution', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ammonium sulphate; double salts and\nmixtures of ammonium sulphate and\nammonium nitrate :', '', ''], ['2740', '3102.21.00', '- - Ammonium sulphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2741', '3102.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2742', '3102.30.00', '- Ammonium nitrate, whether or not in\naqueous solution', '0%', 'E0'], ['2743', '3102.40.00', '- Mixtures of ammonium nitrate with\ncalcium carbonate or other inorganic non-\nfertilising substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['2744', '3102.50.00', '- Sodium nitrate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2745', '3102.60.00', '- Double salts and mixtures of calcium\nnitrate and ammonium nitrate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2746', '3102.80.00', '- Mixtures of urea and ammonium nitrate\nin aqueous or ammoniacal solution', '0%', 'E0'], ['2747', '3102.90.00', '- Other, including mixtures not specified\nin the foregoing subheadings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '31.03', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers,\nphosphatic.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Superphosphates :', '', ''], ['', '3103.11', '- - Containing by weight 35 % or more of\ndiphosphorus pentaoxide (P O ) :\n2 5', '', ''], ['2748', '3103.11.10', '- - - Feed grade', '0%', 'E0'], ['2749', '3103.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3103.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2750', '3103.19.10', '- - - Feed grade', '0%', 'E0'], ['2751', '3103.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3103.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2752', '3103.90.10', '- - Calcined phosphatic fertilisers', '0%', 'E0'], ['2753', '3103.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '31.04', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers,\npotassic.', '', ''], ['2754', '3104.20.00', '- Potassium chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['2755', '3104.30.00', '- Potassium sulphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['2756', '3104.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '31.05', 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining two or three of the fertilising\nelements nitrogen, phosphorus and\npotassium; other fertilisers; goods of\nthis Chapter in tablets or similar forms\nor in packages of a gross weight not\nexceeding 10 kg.', '', ''], ['', '3105.10', '- Goods of this Chapter in tablets or\nsimilar forms or in packages of a gross\nweight not exceeding 10 kg :', '', ''], ['2757', '3105.10.10', '- - Superphosphates and calcined\nphosphatic fertilisers', '0%', 'E0'], ['2758', '3105.10.20', '- - Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining two or three of the fertilising\nelements nitrogen, phosphorus and\npotassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2759', '3105.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2760', '3105.20.00', '- Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining the three fertilising elements\nnitrogen, phosphorus and potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2761', '3105.30.00', '- Diammonium hydrogenorthophosphate\n(diammonium phosphate)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2762', '3105.40.00', '- Ammonium dihydrogenorthophosphate\n(monoammonium phosphate) and\nmixtures thereof with diammonium\nhydrogenorthophosphate (diammonium\nphosphate)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining the two fertilising elements\nnitrogen and phosphorus :', '', ''], ['2763', '3105.51.00', '- - Containing nitrates and phosphates', '0%', 'E0'], ['2764', '3105.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2765', '3105.60.00', '- Mineral or chemical fertilisers\ncontaining the two fertilising elements\nphosphorus and potassium', '0%', 'E0'], ['2766', '3105.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.01', 'Tanning extracts of vegetable origin;\ntannins and their salts, ethers, esters\nand other derivatives.', '', ''], ['2767', '3201.10.00', '- Quebracho extract', '0%', 'E0'], ['2768', '3201.20.00', '- Wattle extract', '0%', 'E0'], ['2769', '3201.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.02', 'Synthetic organic tanning substances;\ninorganic tanning substances; tanning\npreparations, whether or not\ncontaining natural tanning substances;\nenzymatic preparations for pre-\ntanning.', '', ''], ['2770', '3202.10.00', '- Synthetic organic tanning substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['2771', '3202.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.03', 'Colouring matter of vegetable or\nanimal origin (including dyeing\nextracts but excluding animal black),\nwhether or not chemically defined;\npreparations as specified in Note 3 to\nthis Chapter based on colouring matter\nof vegetable or animal origin.', '', ''], ['2772', '3203.00.10', '- Of a kind used in the food or drink\nindustries', '0%', 'E0'], ['2773', '3203.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.04', 'Synthetic organic colouring matter,\nwhether or not chemically defined;\npreparations as specified in Note 3 to\nthis Chapter based on synthetic organic\ncolouring matter; synthetic organic\nproducts of a kind used as fluorescent\nbrightening agents or as luminophores,\nwhether or not chemically defined.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Synthetic organic colouring matter and\npreparations based thereon as specified in\nNote 3 to this Chapter :', '', ''], ['', '3204.11', '- - Disperse dyes and preparations based\nthereon :', '', ''], ['2774', '3204.11.10', '- - - Crude', '0%', 'E0'], ['2775', '3204.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3204.12', '- - Acid dyes, whether or not\npremetallised, and preparations based\nthereon; mordant dyes and preparations\nbased thereon :', '', ''], ['2776', '3204.12.10', '- - - Acid dyes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2777', '3204.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2778', '3204.13.00', '- - Basic dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2779', '3204.14.00', '- - Direct dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2780', '3204.15.00', '- - Vat dyes (including those usable in that\nstate as pigments) and preparations based\nthereon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2781', '3204.16.00', '- - Reactive dyes and preparations based\nthereon', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3204.17', '- - Pigments and preparations based\nthereon :', '', ''], ['2782', '3204.17.10', '- - - Synthetic organic pigment in powder\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['2783', '3204.17.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2784', '3204.19.00', '- - Other, including mixtures of colouring\nmatter of two or more of the subheadings\n3204.11 to 3204.19', '0%', 'E0'], ['2785', '3204.20.00', '- Synthetic organic products of a kind\nused as fluorescent brightening agents', '0%', 'E0'], ['2786', '3204.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2787', '3205.00.00', 'Colour lakes; preparations as specified\nin Note 3 to this Chapter based on\ncolour lakes.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.06', 'Other colouring matter; preparations\nas specified in Note 3 to this Chapter,\nother than those of heading 32.03, 32.04\nor 32.05; inorganic products of a kind\nused as luminophores, whether or not\nchemically defined.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Pigments and preparations based on\ntitanium dioxide :', '', ''], ['', '3206.11', '- - Containing 80 % or more by weight of\ntitanium dioxide calculated on the dry\nmatter :', '', ''], ['2788', '3206.11.10', '- - - Pigments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2789', '3206.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3206.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2790', '3206.19.10', '- - - Pigments', '0%', 'E0'], ['2791', '3206.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3206.20', '- Pigments and preparations based on\nchromium compounds :', '', ''], ['2792', '3206.20.10', '- - Chrome yellow, chrome green and\nmolybdate orange or red based on\nchromium compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['2793', '3206.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other colouring matter and other\npreparations :', '', ''], ['', '3206.41', '- - Ultramarine and preparations based\nthereon :', '', ''], ['2794', '3206.41.10', '- - - Preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2795', '3206.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3206.42', '- - Lithopone and other pigments and\npreparations based on zinc sulphide :', '', ''], ['2796', '3206.42.10', '- - - Preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2797', '3206.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3206.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2798', '3206.49.10', '- - - Preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2799', '3206.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3206.50', '- Inorganic products of a kind used as', '', ''], ['', '', 'luminophores :', '', ''], ['2800', '3206.50.10', '- - Preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2801', '3206.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.07', 'Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers\nand prepared colours, vitrifiable\nenamels and glazes, engobes (slips),\nliquid lustres and similar preparations,\nof a kind used in the ceramic,\nenamelling or glass industry; glass frit\nand other glass, in the form of powder,\ngranules or flakes.', '', ''], ['2802', '3207.10.00', '- Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers,\nprepared colours and similar preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3207.20', '- Vitrifiable enamels and glazes, engobes\n(slips) and similar preparations :', '', ''], ['2803', '3207.20.10', '- - Enamel frits', '0%', 'E0'], ['2804', '3207.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2805', '3207.30.00', '- Liquid lustres and similar preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2806', '3207.40.00', '- Glass frit and other glass, in the form of\npowder, granules or flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.08', 'Paints and varnishes (including\nenamels and lacquers) based on\nsynthetic polymers or chemically\nmodified natural polymers, dispersed\nor dissolved in a non-aqueous medium;\nsolutions as defined in Note 4 to this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '3208.10', '- Based on polyesters :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Varnishes (including lacquers) :', '', ''], ['2807', '3208.10.11', '- - - Of a kind used in dentistry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2808', '3208.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2809', '3208.10.20', '- - Anti-fouling and/or anti-corrosive\npaints for ships’ hulls', '0%', 'E0'], ['2810', '3208.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3208.20', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers :', '', ''], ['2811', '3208.20.40', '- - Anti-fouling and/or anti-corrosive\npaints for ships’ hulls', '0%', 'E0'], ['2812', '3208.20.70', '- - Varnishes (including lacquers), of a\nkind used in dentistry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2813', '3208.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3208.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Varnishes (including lacquers),\nexceeding 100°C heat resistance :', '', ''], ['2814', '3208.90.11', '- - - Of a kind used in dentistry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2815', '3208.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Varnishes (including lacquers), not\nexceeding 100°C heat resistance :', '', ''], ['2816', '3208.90.21', '- - - Of a kind used in dentistry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2817', '3208.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2818', '3208.90.30', '- - Anti-fouling and/or anti-corrosive', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'paints for ships’ hulls', '', ''], ['2819', '3208.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.09', 'Paints and varnishes (including\nenamels and lacquers) based on\nsynthetic polymers or chemically\nmodified natural polymers, dispersed\nor dissolved in an aqueous medium.', '', ''], ['', '3209.10', '- Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers :', '', ''], ['2820', '3209.10.10', '- - Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2821', '3209.10.40', '- - Leather paints', '0%', 'E0'], ['2822', '3209.10.50', '- - Anti-fouling and/or anti-corrosive\npaints for ships’ hulls', '0%', 'E0'], ['2823', '3209.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2824', '3209.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.10', 'Other paints and varnishes (including\nenamels, lacquers and distempers);\nprepared water pigments of a kind used\nfor finishing leather.', '', ''], ['2825', '3210.00.10', '- Varnishes (including lacquers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2826', '3210.00.20', '- Distempers', '0%', 'E0'], ['2827', '3210.00.30', '- Prepared water pigments of a kind used\nfor finishing leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2828', '3210.00.91', '- - Anti-fouling and/or anti-corrosive\npaints for ships’ hulls', '0%', 'E0'], ['2829', '3210.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2830', '3211.00.00', 'Prepared driers.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.12', 'Pigments (including metallic powders\nand flakes) dispersed in non-aqueous\nmedia, in liquid or paste form, of a kind\nused in the manufacture of paints\n(including enamels); stamping foils;\ndyes and other colouring matter put up\nin forms or packings for retail sale.', '', ''], ['2831', '3212.10.00', '- Stamping foils', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3212.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Pigments (including metallic powders\nand flakes) dispersed in non-aqueous\nmedia, in liquid or paste form, of a kind\nused in the manufacture of paints\n(including enamels) :', '', ''], ['2832', '3212.90.11', '- - - Aluminium paste', '0%', 'E0'], ['2833', '3212.90.13', '- - - White lead dispersed in oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['2834', '3212.90.14', '- - - Other, for the manufacture of leather\npaint', '0%', 'E0'], ['2835', '3212.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Dyes and other colouring matter put up\nin forms or packings for retail sale :', '', ''], ['2836', '3212.90.21', '- - - Of a kind used in the food or drink\nindustries', '0%', 'E0'], ['2837', '3212.90.22', '- - - Other dyes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2838', '3212.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.13', "Artists', students' or signboard\npainters' colours, modifying tints,\namusement colours and the like, in\ntablets, tubes, jars, bottles, pans or in\nsimilar forms or packings.", '', ''], ['2839', '3213.10.00', '- Colours in sets', '0%', 'E0'], ['2840', '3213.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.14', "Glaziers' putty, grafting putty, resin\ncements, caulking compounds and\nother mastics; painters' fillings; non-\nrefractory surfacing preparations for\nfacades, indoor walls, floors, ceilings or\nthe like.", '', ''], ['2841', '3214.10.00', "- Glaziers' putty, grafting putty, resin\ncements, caulking compounds and other\nmastics; painters' fillings", '0%', 'E0'], ['2842', '3214.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '32.15', 'Printing ink, writing or drawing ink\nand other inks, whether or not\nconcentrated or solid.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Printing ink :', '', ''], ['', '3215.11', '- - Black :', '', ''], ['2843', '3215.11.10', '- - - Ultra-violet curable inks', '0%', 'E0'], ['2844', '3215.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2845', '3215.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3215.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2846', '3215.90.10', '- - Carbon mass of a kind used to\nmanufacture carbon paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['2847', '3215.90.60', '- - Writing or drawing ink', '0%', 'E0'], ['2848', '3215.90.70', '- - Ink of a kind suitable for use with\nduplicating machines of heading 84.72', '0%', 'E0'], ['2849', '3215.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '33.01', 'Essential oils (terpeneless or not),\nincluding concretes and absolutes;\nresinoids; extracted oleoresins;\nconcentrates of essential oils in fats, in\nfixed oils, in waxes or the like, obtained\nby enfleurage or maceration; terpenic\nby-products of the deterpenation of\nessential oils; aqueous distillates and\naqueous solutions of essential oils.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Essential oils of citrus fruit :', '', ''], ['2850', '3301.12.00', '- - Of orange', '0%', 'E0'], ['2851', '3301.13.00', '- - Of lemon', '0%', 'E0'], ['2852', '3301.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Essential oils other than those of citrus\nfruit :', '', ''], ['2853', '3301.24.00', '- - Of peppermint (Mentha piperita)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2854', '3301.25.00', '- - Of other mints', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3301.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2855', '3301.29.10', '- - - Of lemon grass, citronella, nutmeg,\ncinnamon, ginger, cardamom, fennel or\npalmrose', '0%', 'E0'], ['2856', '3301.29.20', '- - - Of sandalwood', '0%', 'E0'], ['2857', '3301.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2858', '3301.30.00', '- Resinoids', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3301.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2859', '3301.90.10', '- - Aqueous distillates and aqueous\nsolutions of essential oils suitable for\nmedicinal use', '0%', 'E0'], ['2860', '3301.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '33.02', 'Mixtures of odoriferous substances and\nmixtures (including alcoholic solutions)\nwith a basis of one or more of these\nsubstances, of a kind used as raw\nmaterials in industry; other\npreparations based on odoriferous\nsubstances, of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of beverages.', '', ''], ['', '3302.10', '- Of a kind used in the food or drink\nindustries :', '', ''], ['2861', '3302.10.10', '- - Odoriferous alcoholic preparations of a\nkind used in the manufacture of alcoholic\nbeverages, in liquid form', '150%', 'EX'], ['2862', '3302.10.20', '- - Odoriferous alcoholic preparations of a\nkind used in the manufacture of alcoholic\nbeverages, in other forms', '150%', 'EX'], ['2863', '3302.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2864', '3302.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2865', '3303.00.00', 'Perfumes and toilet waters.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '33.04', 'Beauty or make-up preparations and\npreparations for the care of the skin\n(other than medicaments), including\nsunscreen or sun tan preparations;\nmanicure or pedicure preparations.', '', ''], ['2866', '3304.10.00', '- Lip make-up preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2867', '3304.20.00', '- Eye make-up preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2868', '3304.30.00', '- Manicure and pedicure preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2869', '3304.91.00', '- - Powders, whether or not compressed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3304.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2870', '3304.99.20', '- - - Anti-acne preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2871', '3304.99.30', '- - - Other face or skin creams and lotions', '0%', 'E0'], ['2872', '3304.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '33.05', 'Preparations for use on the hair.', '', ''], ['', '3305.10', '- Shampoos :', '', ''], ['2873', '3305.10.10', '- - Having anti-fungal properties', '8%', 'EX'], ['2874', '3305.10.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['2875', '3305.20.00', '- Preparations for permanent waving or\nstraightening', '0%', 'E0'], ['2876', '3305.30.00', '- Hair lacquers', '0%', 'E0'], ['2877', '3305.90.00', '- Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '33.06', 'Preparations for oral or dental hygiene,\nincluding denture fixative pastes and\npowders; yarn used to clean between\nthe teeth (dental floss), in individual\nretail packages.', '', ''], ['', '3306.10', '- Dentifrices :', '', ''], ['2878', '3306.10.10', '- - Powders and pastes for dental\nprophylaxis', '0%', 'E0'], ['2879', '3306.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2880', '3306.20.00', '- Yarn used to clean between the teeth\n(dental floss)', '0%', 'E0'], ['2881', '3306.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '33.07', 'Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave\npreparations, personal deodorants,\nbath preparations, depilatories and\nother perfumery, cosmetic or toilet\npreparations, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; prepared room deodorisers,\nwhether or not perfumed or having\ndisinfectant properties.', '', ''], ['2882', '3307.10.00', '- Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2883', '3307.20.00', '- Personal deodorants and antiperspirants', '0%', 'E0'], ['2884', '3307.30.00', '- Perfumed bath salts and other bath\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Preparations for perfuming or\ndeodorising rooms, including odoriferous\npreparations used during religious rites :', '', ''], ['', '3307.41', '- - “Agarbatti” and other odoriferous\npreparations which operate by burning :', '', ''], ['2885', '3307.41.10', '- - - Scented powders (incense) of a kind\nused during religious rites', '0%', 'E0'], ['2886', '3307.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3307.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2887', '3307.49.10', '- - - Room perfuming preparations,\nwhether or not having disinfectant\nproperties', '0%', 'E0'], ['2888', '3307.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3307.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2889', '3307.90.10', '- - Animal toilet preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2890', '3307.90.30', '- - Papers and tissues, impregnated or\ncoated with perfume or cosmetics', '0%', 'E0'], ['2891', '3307.90.40', '- - Other perfumery or cosmetics,\nincluding depilatories', '0%', 'E0'], ['2892', '3307.90.50', '- - Contact lens or artificial eye solutions', '0%', 'E0'], ['2893', '3307.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.01', 'Soap; organic surface-active products\nand preparations for use as soap, in the\nform of bars, cakes, moulded pieces or\nshapes, whether or not containing soap;\norganic surface-active products and\npreparations for washing the skin, in\nthe form of liquid or cream and put up\nfor retail sale, whether or not\ncontaining soap; paper, wadding, felt\nand nonwovens, impregnated, coated or\ncovered with soap or detergent.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Soap and organic surface-active\nproducts and preparations, in the form of\nbars, cakes, moulded pieces or shapes,\nand paper, wadding, felt and nonwovens,\nimpregnated, coated or covered with soap\nor detergent :', '', ''], ['', '3401.11', '- - For toilet use (including medicated\nproducts) :', '', ''], ['2894', '3401.11.40', '- - - Medicated soap including disinfectant\nsoap', '0%', 'E0'], ['2895', '3401.11.50', '- - - Other soap including bath soap', '8%', 'EX'], ['2896', '3401.11.60', '- - - Other, of felt or nonwovens,\nimpregnated, coated or covered with soap\nor detergent', '8%', 'E10'], ['2897', '3401.11.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '3401.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2898', '3401.19.10', '- - - Of felt or nonwovens, impregnated,\ncoated or covered with soap or detergent', '0%', 'E0'], ['2899', '3401.19.90', '- - - Other', '7%', 'E0'], ['', '3401.20', '- Soap in other forms :', '', ''], ['2900', '3401.20.20', '- - Soap chips', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2901', '3401.20.91', '- - - Of a kind used for flotation de-inking\nof recycled paper', '7%', 'E0'], ['2902', '3401.20.99', '- - - Other', '7%', 'E0'], ['2903', '3401.30.00', '- Organic surface-active products and\npreparations for washing the skin, in the\nform of liquid or cream and put up for\nretail sale, whether or not containing soap', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.02', 'Organic surface-active agents (other\nthan soap); surface-active preparations,\nwashing preparations (including\nauxiliary washing preparations) and\ncleaning preparations, whether or not\ncontaining soap, other than those of\nheading 34.01.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Organic surface-active agents, whether\nor not put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['', '3402.11', '- - Anionic :', '', ''], ['2904', '3402.11.10', '- - - Sulphated fatty alcohols', '0%', 'E0'], ['2905', '3402.11.40', '- - - Sulphonated alkylbenzene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2906', '3402.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2907', '3402.12.00', '- - Cationic', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3402.13', '- - Non-ionic :', '', ''], ['2908', '3402.13.10', '- - - Hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene', '0%', 'E0'], ['2909', '3402.13.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3402.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2910', '3402.19.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in fire-\nextinguishing preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2911', '3402.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3402.20', '- Preparations put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2912', '3402.20.14', '- - - Surface active preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2913', '3402.20.15', '- - - Washing preparations or cleaning\npreparations, including bleaching,\ncleansing or degreasing preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2914', '3402.20.94', '- - - Surface active preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2915', '3402.20.95', '- - - Washing preparations or cleaning\npreparations, including bleaching,\ncleansing or degreasing preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3402.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2916', '3402.90.11', '- - - Anionic wetting agents', '0%', 'E0'], ['2917', '3402.90.12', '- - - Anionic washing preparations or\ncleaning preparations, including\nbleaching, cleansing or degreasing\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2918', '3402.90.13', '- - - Other washing preparations or\ncleaning preparations, including\nbleaching, cleansing or degreasing\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2919', '3402.90.14', '- - - Other anionic surface active\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2920', '3402.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2921', '3402.90.91', '- - - Anionic wetting agents', '0%', 'E0'], ['2922', '3402.90.92', '- - - Anionic washing preparations or\ncleaning preparations, including\nbleaching, cleansing or degreasing\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2923', '3402.90.93', '- - - Other washing preparations or\ncleaning preparations, including\nbleaching, cleansing or degreasing\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2924', '3402.90.94', '- - - Other anionic surface active\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2925', '3402.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.03', 'Lubricating preparations (including\ncutting-oil preparations, bolt or nut\nrelease preparations, anti-rust or anti-\ncorrosion preparations and mould\nrelease preparations, based on\nlubricants) and preparations of a kind\nused for the oil or grease treatment of\ntextile materials, leather, furskins or\nother materials, but excluding\npreparations containing, as basic\nconstituents, 70 % or more by weight of\npetroleum oils or of oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals :', '', ''], ['', '3403.11', '- - Preparations for the treatment of textile\nmaterials, leather, furskins or other\nmaterials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2926', '3403.11.11', '- - - - Lubricating preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['2927', '3403.11.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2928', '3403.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3403.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2929', '3403.19.11', '- - - - Preparations for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['2930', '3403.19.12', '- - - - Other preparations containing\nsilicone oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['2931', '3403.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2932', '3403.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3403.91', '- - Preparations for the treatment of textile\nmaterials, leather, furskins or other\nmaterials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2933', '3403.91.11', '- - - - Preparations containing silicone oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['2934', '3403.91.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2935', '3403.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3403.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In liquid form :', '', ''], ['2936', '3403.99.11', '- - - - Preparations for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['2937', '3403.99.12', '- - - - Other preparations containing\nsilicone oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['2938', '3403.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2939', '3403.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.04', 'Artificial waxes and prepared waxes.', '', ''], ['2940', '3404.20.00', '- Of poly(oxyethylene) (polyethylene\nglycol)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3404.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2941', '3404.90.10', '- - Of chemically modified lignite', '0%', 'E0'], ['2942', '3404.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.05', 'Polishes and creams, for footwear,\nfurniture, floors, coachwork, glass or\nmetal, scouring pastes and powders and\nsimilar preparations (whether or not in\nthe form of paper, wadding, felt,\nnonwovens, cellular plastics or cellular\nrubber, impregnated, coated or covered\nwith such preparations), excluding\nwaxes of heading 34.04.', '', ''], ['2943', '3405.10.00', '- Polishes, creams and similar\npreparations for footwear or leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['2944', '3405.20.00', '- Polishes, creams and similar\npreparations for the maintenance of\nwooden furniture, floors or other\nwoodwork', '0%', 'E0'], ['2945', '3405.30.00', '- Polishes and similar preparations for\ncoachwork, other than metal polishes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3405.40', '- Scouring pastes and powders and other\nscouring preparations :', '', ''], ['2946', '3405.40.20', '- - In packaging of a net weight not\nexceeding 1 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['2947', '3405.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3405.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2948', '3405.90.10', '- - Metal polishes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2949', '3405.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2950', '3406.00.00', 'Candles, tapers and the like.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '34.07', "Modelling pastes, including those put\nup for children's amusement;\npreparations known as “dental wax”\nor as “dental impression compounds”,\nput up in sets, in packings for retail sale\nor in plates, horseshoe shapes, sticks or\nsimilar forms; other preparations for\nuse in dentistry, with a basis of plaster\n(of calcined gypsum or calcium\nsulphate).", '', ''], ['2951', '3407.00.10', '- Modelling pastes, including those put up\nfor children’s amusement', '0%', 'E0'], ['2952', '3407.00.20', '- Preparations known as "dental wax" or\n"dental impression compounds", put up in\nsets, in packings for retail sale or in\nplates, horseshoe shapes, sticks or similar\nforms', '0%', 'E0'], ['2953', '3407.00.30', '- Other preparations for use in dentistry,\nwith a basis of plaster (of calcined\ngypsum or calcium sulphate)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '35.01', 'Casein, caseinates and other casein\nderivatives; casein glues.', '', ''], ['2954', '3501.10.00', '- Casein', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3501.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2955', '3501.90.10', '- - Caseinates and other casein derivatives', '0%', 'E0'], ['2956', '3501.90.20', '- - Casein glues', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '35.02', 'Albumins (including concentrates of\ntwo or more whey proteins, containing\nby weight more than 80 % whey\nproteins, calculated on the dry matter),\nalbuminates and other albumin\nderivatives.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Egg albumin :', '', ''], ['2957', '3502.11.00', '- - Dried', '0%', 'E0'], ['2958', '3502.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2959', '3502.20.00', '- Milk albumin, including concentrates of\ntwo or more whey proteins', '0%', 'E0'], ['2960', '3502.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '35.03', 'Gelatin (including gelatin in\nrectangular (including square) sheets,\nwhether or not surface-worked or\ncoloured) and gelatin derivatives;\nisinglass; other glues of animal origin,\nexcluding casein glues of heading 35.01.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Glues :', '', ''], ['2961', '3503.00.11', '- - Fish glues', '0%', 'E0'], ['2962', '3503.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2963', '3503.00.30', '- Isinglass', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Gelatin and gelatin derivatives :', '', ''], ['2964', '3503.00.41', '- - In powder form with a bloating level of\nA-250 or B-230 or higher on the Bloom\nscale', '0%', 'E0'], ['2965', '3503.00.49', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2966', '3504.00.00', 'Peptones and their derivatives; other\nprotein substances and their\nderivatives, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; hide powder, whether or not\nchromed.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '35.05', 'Dextrins and other modified starches\n(for example, pregelatinised or\nesterified starches); glues based on\nstarches, or on dextrins or other\nmodified starches.', '', ''], ['', '3505.10', '- Dextrins and other modified starches :', '', ''], ['2967', '3505.10.10', '- - Dextrins; soluble or roasted starches', '0%', 'E0'], ['2968', '3505.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['2969', '3505.20.00', '- Glues', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '35.06', 'Prepared glues and other prepared\nadhesives, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; products suitable for use as\nglues or adhesives, put up for retail sale\nas glues or adhesives, not exceeding a\nnet weight of 1 kg.', '', ''], ['2970', '3506.10.00', '- Products suitable for use as glues or\nadhesives, put up for retail sale as glues or\nadhesives, not exceeding a net weight of 1\nkg', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2971', '3506.91.00', '- - Adhesives based on polymers of\nheadings 39.01 to 39.13 or on rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['2972', '3506.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '35.07', 'Enzymes; prepared enzymes not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['2973', '3507.10.00', '- Rennet and concentrates thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['2974', '3507.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2975', '3601.00.00', 'Propellent powders.', '0%', 'E0'], ['2976', '3602.00.00', 'Prepared explosives, other than\npropellent powders.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '36.03', 'Safety fuses; detonating fuses;\npercussion or detonating caps; igniters;\nelectric detonators.', '', ''], ['2977', '3603.00.10', '- Semi-fuses; elemented caps; signal tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['2978', '3603.00.20', '- Safety fuses; detonating fuses', '0%', 'E0'], ['2979', '3603.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '36.04', 'Fireworks, signalling flares, rain\nrockets, fog signals and other\npyrotechnic articles.', '', ''], ['2980', '3604.10.00', '- Fireworks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3604.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2981', '3604.90.20', '- - Miniature pyrotechnic munitions and\npercussion caps for toys', '0%', 'E0'], ['2982', '3604.90.30', '- - Signalling flares or rockets', '0%', 'E0'], ['2983', '3604.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['2984', '3605.00.00', 'Matches, other than pyrotechnic\narticles of heading 36.04.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '36.06', 'Ferro-cerium and other pyrophoric\nalloys in all forms; articles of\ncombustible materials as specified in\nNote 2 to this Chapter.', '', ''], ['2985', '3606.10.00', '- Liquid or liquefied-gas fuels in\ncontainers of a kind used for filling or\nrefilling cigarette or similar lighters and\nof a capacity not exceeding 300 cm3', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3606.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['2986', '3606.90.10', '- - Solid or semi-solid fuels, solidified\nalcohol and similar prepared fuels', '0%', 'E0'], ['2987', '3606.90.20', '- - Lighter flints', '0%', 'E0'], ['2988', '3606.90.30', '- - Other ferro-cerium and other\npyrophoric alloys in all forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['2989', '3606.90.40', '- - Resin torches, firelighters and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['2990', '3606.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.01', 'Photographic plates and film in the flat,\nsensitised, unexposed, of any material\nother than paper, paperboard or\ntextiles; instant print film in the flat,\nsensitised, unexposed, whether or not in\npacks.', '', ''], ['2991', '3701.10.00', '- For X-ray', '0%', 'E0'], ['2992', '3701.20.00', '- Instant print film', '0%', 'E0'], ['2993', '3701.30.00', '- Other plates and film, with any side', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'exceeding 255 mm', '', ''], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3701.91', '- - For colour photography (polychrome) :', '', ''], ['2994', '3701.91.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in the\nprinting industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2995', '3701.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3701.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['2996', '3701.99.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in the\nprinting industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['2997', '3701.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.02', 'Photographic film in rolls, sensitised,\nunexposed, of any material other than\npaper, paperboard or textiles; instant\nprint film in rolls, sensitised,\nunexposed.', '', ''], ['2998', '3702.10.00', '- For X-ray', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other film, without perforations, of a\nwidth not exceeding 105 mm :', '', ''], ['2999', '3702.31.00', '- - For colour photography (polychrome)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3000', '3702.32.00', '- - Other, with silver halide emulsion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3001', '3702.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other film, without perforations, of a\nwidth exceeding 105 mm :', '', ''], ['3002', '3702.41.00', '- - Of a width exceeding 610 mm and of a\nlength exceeding 200 m, for colour\nphotography (polychrome)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.42', '- - Of a width exceeding 610 mm and of a\nlength exceeding 200 m, other than for\ncolour photography :', '', ''], ['3003', '3702.42.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in medical,\nsurgical, dental or veterinary sciences or\nin the printing industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['3004', '3702.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3005', '3702.43.00', '- - Of a width exceeding 610 mm and of a\nlength not exceeding 200 m', '0%', 'E0'], ['3006', '3702.44.00', '- - Of a width exceeding 105 mm but not\nexceeding 610 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other film, for colour photography\n(polychrome) :', '', ''], ['', '3702.52', '- - Of a width not exceeding 16 mm :', '', ''], ['3007', '3702.52.20', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3008', '3702.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3009', '3702.53.00', '- - Of a width exceeding 16 mm but not\nexceeding 35 mm and of a length not\nexceeding 30 m, for slides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.54', '- - Of a width exceeding 16 mm but not\nexceeding 35 mm and of a length not\nexceeding 30 m, other than for slides :', '', ''], ['3010', '3702.54.40', '- - - Of a kind suitable for used in\nmedical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nsciences or in the printing industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['3011', '3702.54.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.55', '- - Of a width exceeding 16 mm but not\nexceeding 35 mm and of a length\nexceeding 30 m :', '', ''], ['3012', '3702.55.20', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3013', '3702.55.50', '- - - Of a kind suitable for used in\nmedical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nsciences or in the printing industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['3014', '3702.55.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.56', '- - Of a width exceeding 35 mm :', '', ''], ['3015', '3702.56.20', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3016', '3702.56.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3702.96', '- - Of a width not exceeding 35 mm and\nof a length not exceeding 30 m :', '', ''], ['3017', '3702.96.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3018', '3702.96.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.97', '- - Of a width not exceeding 35 mm and\nof a length exceeding 30 m :', '', ''], ['3019', '3702.97.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3020', '3702.97.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3702.98', '- - Of a width exceeding 35 mm :', '', ''], ['3021', '3702.98.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['3022', '3702.98.30', '- - - Other, of a length of 120 m or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['3023', '3702.98.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.03', 'Photographic paper, paperboard and\ntextiles, sensitised, unexposed.', '', ''], ['', '3703.10', '- In rolls of a width exceeding 610 mm :', '', ''], ['3024', '3703.10.10', '- - Of a width not exceeding 1,000 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3025', '3703.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3026', '3703.20.00', '- Other, for colour photography\n(polychrome)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3027', '3703.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.04', 'Photographic plates, film, paper,\npaperboard and textiles, exposed but\nnot developed.', '', ''], ['3028', '3704.00.10', '- X-ray plates or film', '0%', 'E0'], ['3029', '3704.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.05', 'Photographic plates and film, exposed\nand developed, other than\ncinematographic film.', '', ''], ['3030', '3705.00.10', '- X-ray', '0%', 'E0'], ['3031', '3705.00.20', '- Microfilm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3032', '3705.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.06', 'Cinematographic film, exposed and\ndeveloped, whether or not\nincorporating sound track or consisting', '', ''], ['', '', 'only of sound track.', '', ''], ['', '3706.10', '- Of a width of 35 mm or more :', '', ''], ['3033', '3706.10.10', '- - Newsreels, travelogues, technical and\nscientific films', '0%', 'E0'], ['3034', '3706.10.30', '- - Other documentary films', '0%', 'E0'], ['3035', '3706.10.40', '- - Other, consisting only of sound track', '0%', 'E0'], ['3036', '3706.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3706.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3037', '3706.90.10', '- - Newsreels, travelogues, technical and\nscientific films', '0%', 'E0'], ['3038', '3706.90.30', '- - Other documentary films', '0%', 'E0'], ['3039', '3706.90.40', '- - Other, consisting only of sound track', '0%', 'E0'], ['3040', '3706.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '37.07', 'Chemical preparations for\nphotographic uses (other than\nvarnishes, glues, adhesives and similar\npreparations); unmixed products for\nphotographic uses, put up in measured\nportions or put up for retail sale in a\nform ready for use.', '', ''], ['3041', '3707.10.00', '- Sensitising emulsions', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3707.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3042', '3707.90.10', '- - Flashlight materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['3043', '3707.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.01', 'Artificial graphite; colloidal or semi-\ncolloidal graphite; preparations based\non graphite or other carbon in the form\nof pastes, blocks, plates or other semi-\nmanufactures.', '', ''], ['3044', '3801.10.00', '- Artificial graphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['3045', '3801.20.00', '- Colloidal or semi-colloidal graphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['3046', '3801.30.00', '- Carbonaceous pastes for electrodes and\nsimilar pastes for furnace linings', '0%', 'E0'], ['3047', '3801.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.02', 'Activated carbon; activated natural\nmineral products; animal black,\nincluding spent animal black.', '', ''], ['3048', '3802.10.00', '- Activated carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3802.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3049', '3802.90.10', '- - Activated bauxite', '0%', 'E0'], ['3050', '3802.90.20', '- - Activated clays or activated earths', '0%', 'E0'], ['3051', '3802.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3052', '3803.00.00', 'Tall oil, whether or not refined.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.04', 'Residual lyes from the manufacture of\nwood pulp, whether or not\nconcentrated, desugared or chemically\ntreated, including lignin sulphonates,\nbut excluding tall oil of heading 38.03.', '', ''], ['3053', '3804.00.10', '- Concentrated sulphite lye', '0%', 'E0'], ['3054', '3804.00.20', '- Calcium lignin sulphonates (Ca LS)\n2\nbinder used for fire-brick production', '0%', 'E0'], ['3055', '3804.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.05', 'Gum, wood or sulphate turpentine and\nother terpenic oils produced by the\ndistillation or other treatment of\nconiferous woods; crude dipentene;\nsulphite turpentine and other crude\npara-cymene; pine oil containing alpha-\nterpineol as the main constituent.', '', ''], ['3056', '3805.10.00', '- Gum, wood or sulphate turpentine oils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3057', '3805.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.06', 'Rosin and resin acids, and derivatives\nthereof; rosin spirit and rosin oils; run\ngums.', '', ''], ['3058', '3806.10.00', '- Rosin and resin acids', '0%', 'E0'], ['3059', '3806.20.00', '- Salts of rosin, of resin acids or of\nderivatives of rosin or resin acids, other\nthan salts of rosin adducts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3806.30', '- Ester gums :', '', ''], ['3060', '3806.30.10', '- - In blocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['3061', '3806.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3806.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3062', '3806.90.10', '- - Run gums in blocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['3063', '3806.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3064', '3807.00.00', "Wood tar; wood tar oils; wood\ncreosote; wood naphtha; vegetable\npitch; brewers' pitch and similar\npreparations based on rosin, resin acids\nor on vegetable pitch.", '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.08', 'Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides,\nherbicides, anti-sprouting products and\nplant-growth regulators, disinfectants\nand similar products, put up in forms\nor packings for retail sale or as\npreparations or articles (for example,\nsulphur-treated bands, wicks and\ncandles, and fly-papers).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Goods specified in Subheading Note 1\nto this Chapter :', '', ''], ['', '3808.52', '- - DDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN)), in\npackings of a net weight content not\nexceeding 300 g :', '', ''], ['3065', '3808.52.10', '- - - Wood preservatives, being\npreparations other than surface coatings,\ncontaining insecticides or fungicides', '0%', 'E0'], ['3066', '3808.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3067', '3808.59.10', '- - - Insecticides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Fungicides :', '', ''], ['3068', '3808.59.21', '- - - - In aerosol containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3069', '3808.59.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Herbicides :', '', ''], ['3070', '3808.59.31', '- - - - In aerosol containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3071', '3808.59.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3072', '3808.59.40', '- - - Anti-sprouting products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3073', '3808.59.50', '- - - Plant-growth regulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['3074', '3808.59.60', '- - - Disinfectants', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3075', '3808.59.91', '- - - - Wood preservatives, being\npreparations other than surface coatings,\ncontaining insecticides or fungicides', '0%', 'E0'], ['3076', '3808.59.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Goods specified in Subheading Note 2\nto this Chapter :', '', ''], ['', '3808.61', '- - In packings of a net weight content not\nexceeding 300 g :', '', ''], ['3077', '3808.61.10', '- - - Mosquito repellent coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3078', '3808.61.20', '- - - Mosquito repellent mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3079', '3808.61.30', '- - - In aerosol cans', '0%', 'E0'], ['3080', '3808.61.40', '- - - Other, In liquid form', '0%', 'E0'], ['3081', '3808.61.50', '- - - Other, having deodorising function', '0%', 'E0'], ['3082', '3808.61.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.62', '- - In packings of a net weight content\nexceeding 300 g but not exceeding 7.5\nkg :', '', ''], ['3083', '3808.62.10', '- - - Powder for moulding into mosquito\ncoils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3084', '3808.62.20', '- - - Mosquito repellent coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3085', '3808.62.30', '- - - Mosquito repellent mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3086', '3808.62.40', '- - - In aerosol cans', '0%', 'E0'], ['3087', '3808.62.50', '- - - Other, In liquid form', '0%', 'E0'], ['3088', '3808.62.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3089', '3808.69.10', '- - - Powder for moulding into mosquito\ncoils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3090', '3808.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3808.91', '- - Insecticides :', '', ''], ['3091', '3808.91.10', '- - - Intermediate preparations containing\n2-(methylpropyl-phenol\nmethylcarbamate)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3092', '3808.91.20', '- - - Other, powder for moulding into\nmosquito coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3093', '3808.91.30', '- - - In aerosol containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3094', '3808.91.40', '- - - Mosquito repellent coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['3095', '3808.91.50', '- - - Mosquito repellent mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3096', '3808.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.92', '- - Fungicides :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In aerosol containers :', '', ''], ['3097', '3808.92.11', '- - - - With a Validamycin content not\nexceeding 3 % by net weight', '0%', 'E0'], ['3098', '3808.92.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3099', '3808.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.93', '- - Herbicides, anti-sprouting products and\nplant-growth regulators :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Herbicides :', '', ''], ['3100', '3808.93.11', '- - - - In aerosol containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3101', '3808.93.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3102', '3808.93.20', '- - - Anti-sprouting products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3103', '3808.93.30', '- - - Plant-growth regulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.94', '- - Disinfectants :', '', ''], ['3104', '3808.94.10', '- - - Containing mixtures of coal tar acid\nand alkalis', '0%', 'E0'], ['3105', '3808.94.20', '- - - Other, in aerosol containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3106', '3808.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3808.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3107', '3808.99.10', '- - - Wood preservatives, containing\ninsecticides or fungicides', '0%', 'E0'], ['3108', '3808.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.09', 'Finishing agents, dye carriers to\naccelerate the dyeing or fixing of\ndyestuffs and other products and\npreparations (for example, dressings\nand mordants), of a kind used in the\ntextile, paper, leather or like industries,\nnot elsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['3109', '3809.10.00', '- With a basis of amylaceous substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3809.91', '- - Of a kind used in the textile or like\nindustries :', '', ''], ['3110', '3809.91.10', '- - - Softening agents', '0%', 'E0'], ['3111', '3809.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3112', '3809.92.00', '- - Of a kind used in the paper or like\nindustries', '0%', 'E0'], ['3113', '3809.93.00', '- - Of a kind used in the leather or like\nindustries', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.10', 'Pickling preparations for metal\nsurfaces; fluxes and other auxiliary\npreparations for soldering, brazing or\nwelding; soldering, brazing or welding\npowders and pastes consisting of metal\nand other materials; preparations of a\nkind used as cores or coatings for\nwelding electrodes or rods.', '', ''], ['3114', '3810.10.00', '- Pickling preparations for metal surfaces;\nsoldering, brazing or welding powders\nand pastes consisting of metal and other\nmaterials', '0%', 'E0'], ['3115', '3810.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.11', 'Anti-knock preparations, oxidation\ninhibitors, gum inhibitors, viscosity\nimprovers, anti-corrosive preparations\nand other prepared additives, for\nmineral oils (including gasoline) or for\nother liquids used for the same\npurposes as mineral oils.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Anti-knock preparations :', '', ''], ['3116', '3811.11.00', '- - Based on lead compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['3117', '3811.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Additives for lubricating oils :', '', ''], ['', '3811.21', '- - Containing petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals :', '', ''], ['3118', '3811.21.10', '- - - Put up for retail sale', '5%', 'E0'], ['3119', '3811.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3120', '3811.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3811.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3121', '3811.90.10', '- - Rust preventatives or corrosion\ninhibitors', '0%', 'E0'], ['3122', '3811.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.12', 'Prepared rubber accelerators;\ncompound plasticisers for rubber or\nplastics, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; anti-oxidising preparations\nand other compound stabilisers for\nrubber or plastics.', '', ''], ['3123', '3812.10.00', '- Prepared rubber accelerators', '0%', 'E0'], ['3124', '3812.20.00', '- Compound plasticisers for rubber or\nplastics', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Anti-oxidising preparations and other\ncompound stabilizers for rubber or\nplastics :', '', ''], ['3125', '3812.31.00', '- - Mixtures of oligomers of 2,2,4-\ntrimethyl-1,2-dihydroquinoline (TMQ)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3126', '3812.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3127', '3813.00.00', 'Preparations and charges for fire-\nextinguishers; charged fire-\nextinguishing grenades.', '0%', 'E0'], ['3128', '3814.00.00', 'Organic composite solvents and\nthinners, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; prepared paint or varnish\nremovers.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.15', 'Reaction initiators, reaction\naccelerators and catalytic preparations,\nnot elsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Supported catalysts :', '', ''], ['3129', '3815.11.00', '- - With nickel or nickel compounds as the\nactive substance', '0%', 'E0'], ['3130', '3815.12.00', '- - With precious metal or precious metal\ncompounds as the active substance', '0%', 'E0'], ['3131', '3815.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3132', '3815.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.16', 'Refractory cements, mortars, concretes\nand similar compositions, other than\nproducts of heading 38.01.', '', ''], ['3133', '3816.00.10', '- Refractory cements', '0%', 'E0'], ['3134', '3816.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3135', '3817.00.00', 'Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed\nalkylnaphthalenes, other than those of', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'heading 27.07 or 29.02.', '', ''], ['3136', '3818.00.00', 'Chemical elements doped for use in\nelectronics, in the form of discs, wafers\nor similar forms; chemical compounds\ndoped for use in electronics.', '0%', 'E0'], ['3137', '3819.00.00', 'Hydraulic brake fluids and other\nprepared liquids for hydraulic\ntransmission, not containing or\ncontaining less than 70 % by weight of\npetroleum oils or oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals.', '0%', 'E0'], ['3138', '3820.00.00', 'Anti-freezing preparations and\nprepared de-icing fluids.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.21', 'Prepared culture media for the\ndevelopment or maintenance of micro-\norganisms (including viruses and the\nlike) or of plant, human or animal cells.', '', ''], ['3139', '3821.00.10', '- Prepared culture media for the\ndevelopment of micro-organisms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3140', '3821.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.22', 'Diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a\nbacking, prepared diagnostic or\nlaboratory reagents whether or not on a\nbacking, other than those of heading\n30.02 or 30.06; certified reference\nmaterials.', '', ''], ['3141', '3822.00.10', '- Plates, sheets, film, foil and strip of\nplastics impregnated or coated with\ndiagnostic or laboratory reagents', '0%', 'E0'], ['3142', '3822.00.20', '- Paperboard, cellulose wadding and web\nof cellulose fibres impregnated or coated\nwith diagnostic or laboratory reagents', '0%', 'E0'], ['3143', '3822.00.30', '- Sterilisation indicator strips and tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3144', '3822.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.23', 'Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids;\nacid oils from refining; industrial fatty\nalcohols.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids;\nacid oils from refining :', '', ''], ['3145', '3823.11.00', '- - Stearic acid', '5%', 'E0'], ['3146', '3823.12.00', '- - Oleic acid', '0%', 'E0'], ['3147', '3823.13.00', '- - Tall oil fatty acids', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3823.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3148', '3823.19.10', '- - - Acid oils from refining', '8%', 'E7'], ['3149', '3823.19.20', '- - - Palm fatty acid distillate', '0%', 'E0'], ['3150', '3823.19.30', '- - - Palm kernel fatty acid distillate', '0%', 'E0'], ['3151', '3823.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3823.70', '- Industrial fatty alcohols :', '', ''], ['3152', '3823.70.10', '- - In the form of wax', '0%', 'E0'], ['3153', '3823.70.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '38.24', 'Prepared binders for foundry moulds\nor cores; chemical products and\npreparations of the chemical or allied\nindustries (including those consisting of\nmixtures of natural products), not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['3154', '3824.10.00', '- Prepared binders for foundry moulds or\ncores', '0%', 'E0'], ['3155', '3824.30.00', '- Non-agglomerated metal carbides mixed\ntogether or with metallic binders', '0%', 'E0'], ['3156', '3824.40.00', '- Prepared additives for cements, mortars\nor concretes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3157', '3824.50.00', '- Non-refractory mortars and concretes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3158', '3824.60.00', '- Sorbitol other than that of subheading\n2905.44', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mixtures containing halogenated\nderivatives of methane, ethane or\npropane :', '', ''], ['', '3824.71', '- - Containing chlorofluorocarbons\n(CFCs), whether or not containing\nhydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs),\nperfluorocarbons (PFCs) or\nhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) :', '', ''], ['3159', '3824.71.10', '- - - Transformer and circuit breaker oils,\ncontaining by weight less than 70 % of\npetroleum oils or of oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals', '0%', 'E0'], ['3160', '3824.71.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3161', '3824.72.00', '- - Containing\nbromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane or\ndibromotetrafluoroethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3162', '3824.73.00', '- - Containing hydrobromofluorocarbons\n(HBFCs)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3824.74', '- - Containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons\n(HCFCs), whether or not containing\nperfluorocarbons (PFCs) or\nhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not\ncontaining chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) :', '', ''], ['3163', '3824.74.10', '- - - Transformer and circuit breaker oils,\ncontaining by weight less than 70 % of\npetroleum oils or of oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals', '0%', 'E0'], ['3164', '3824.74.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3165', '3824.75.00', '- - Containing carbon tetrachloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['3166', '3824.76.00', '- - Containing 1,1,1-trichloroethane\n(methyl chloroform)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3167', '3824.77.00', '- - Containing bromomethane (methyl\nbromide) or bromochloromethane', '0%', 'E0'], ['3168', '3824.78.00', '- - Containing perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or\nhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not\ncontaining chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) or\nhydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3169', '3824.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Goods specified in Subheading Note 3\nto this Chapter :', '', ''], ['3170', '3824.81.00', '- - Containing oxirane (ethylene oxide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3171', '3824.82.00', '- - Containing polychlorinated biphenyls\n(PCBs), polychlorinated terphenyls\n(PCTs) or polybrominated biphenyls\n(PBBs)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3172', '3824.83.00', '- - Containing tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)\nphosphate', '0%', 'E0'], ['3173', '3824.84.00', '- - Containing aldrin (ISO), camphechlor\n(ISO) (toxaphene), chlordane (ISO),\nchlordecone (ISO), DDT (ISO)\n(clofenotane (INN), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-\nbis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane), dieldrin (ISO,\nINN), endosulfan (ISO), endrin (ISO),\nheptachlor (ISO) or mirex (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3174', '3824.85.00', '- - Containing 1,2,3,4,5,6-\nhexachlorocyclohexane (HCH (ISO)),\nincluding lindane (ISO, INN)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3175', '3824.86.00', '- - Containing pentachlorobenzene (ISO)\nor hexachlorobenzene (ISO)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3176', '3824.87.00', '- - Containing perfluorooctane sulphonic\nacid, its salts, perfluorooctane\nsulphonamides, or perfluorooctane\nsulphonyl fluoride', '0%', 'E0'], ['3177', '3824.88.00', '- - Containing tetra-, penta-, hexa-, hepta-\nor octabromodiphenyl ethers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3178', '3824.91.00', '- - Mixtures and preparations consisting\nmainly of (5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-\n1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl\nmethyl methylphosphonate and bis[(5-\nethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl]\nmethylphosphonate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3824.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3179', '3824.99.10', '- - - Ink removers, stencil correctors, other\ncorrecting fluids and correction tapes\n(other than those of heading 96.12), put\nup in packings for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['3180', '3824.99.30', '- - - Copying pastes with a basis of\ngelatin, whether presented in bulk or\nready for use (for example, on a paper or\ntextile backing)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3181', '3824.99.40', '- - - Composite inorganic solvents', '0%', 'E0'], ['3182', '3824.99.50', '- - - Acetone oil', '0%', 'E0'], ['3183', '3824.99.60', '- - - Chemical preparations containing\nmonosodium glutamate (MSG)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3184', '3824.99.70', '- - - Other chemical preparations, of a\nkind used in the manufacture of foodstuff', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3185', '3824.99.91', '- - - - Naphthenic acids, their water\ninsoluble salts and their esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['3186', '3824.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.25', 'Residual products of the chemical or\nallied industries, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; municipal waste;\nsewage sludge; other wastes specified in\nNote 6 to this Chapter.', '', ''], ['3187', '3825.10.00', '- Municipal waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['3188', '3825.20.00', '- Sewage sludge', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3825.30', '- Clinical waste :', '', ''], ['3189', '3825.30.10', '- - Syringes, needles, cannulae and the\nlike', '0%', 'E0'], ['3190', '3825.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Waste organic solvents :', '', ''], ['3191', '3825.41.00', '- - Halogenated', '0%', 'E0'], ['3192', '3825.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3193', '3825.50.00', '- Wastes of metal pickling liquors,\nhydraulic fluids, brake fluids and anti-\nfreeze fluids', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other wastes from chemical or allied\nindustries :', '', ''], ['3194', '3825.61.00', '- - Mainly containing organic constituents', '0%', 'E0'], ['3195', '3825.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3196', '3825.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '38.26', 'Biodiesel and mixtures thereof, not\ncontaining or containing less than 70 %\nby weight of petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Biodiesel, not containing petroleum oil :', '', ''], ['3197', '3826.00.10', '- - Coconut methyl ester (CME)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Palm Methyl Ester (including palm\nkernel methyl ester) :', '', ''], ['3198', '3826.00.21', '- - - With ester alkyl content 96.5 % or\nmore but not exceeding 98 %', '0%', 'E0'], ['3199', '3826.00.22', '- - - With ester alkyl content exceeding\n98 %', '0%', 'E0'], ['3200', '3826.00.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3201', '3826.00.30', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3202', '3826.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nPRIMARY FORMS', '', ''], ['', '39.01', 'Polymers of ethylene, in primary\nforms.', '', ''], ['', '3901.10', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of\nless than 0.94 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - In the form of liquids or pastes :', '', ''], ['3203', '3901.10.12', '- - - Linear Low-Density Polyethylene\n(LLDPE)', '5%', 'EX'], ['3204', '3901.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3205', '3901.10.92', '- - - Linear Low-Density Polyethylene', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '(LLDPE)', '', ''], ['3206', '3901.10.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3207', '3901.20.00', '- Polyethylene having a specific gravity of\n0.94 or more', '5%', 'EX'], ['3208', '3901.30.00', '- Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers', '5%', 'E0'], ['3209', '3901.40.00', '- Ethylene-alpha-olefin copolymers,\nhaving a specific gravity of less than 0.94', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3901.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3210', '3901.90.40', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3211', '3901.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.02', 'Polymers of propylene or of other\nolefins, in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '3902.10', '- Polypropylene :', '', ''], ['3212', '3902.10.30', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3213', '3902.10.40', '- - Granules, pellets, beads, flakes, chips\nand similar forms', '5%', 'EX'], ['3214', '3902.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3215', '3902.20.00', '- Polyisobutylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3902.30', '- Propylene copolymers :', '', ''], ['3216', '3902.30.30', '- - In the form of liquids or pastes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3217', '3902.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3902.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3218', '3902.90.10', '- - Chlorinated polypropylene of a kind\nsuitable for use in printing ink\nformulation', '0%', 'E0'], ['3219', '3902.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.03', 'Polymers of styrene, in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Polystyrene :', '', ''], ['', '3903.11', '- - Expansible :', '', ''], ['3220', '3903.11.10', '- - - In the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3221', '3903.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3903.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3222', '3903.19.10', '- - - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3223', '3903.19.20', '- - - Granules, pellets, beads, flakes, chips\nand similar forms', '5%', 'EX'], ['3224', '3903.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3903.20', '- Styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN)\ncopolymers :', '', ''], ['3225', '3903.20.40', '- - In aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3226', '3903.20.50', '- - In non-aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3227', '3903.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3903.30', '- Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS)\ncopolymers :', '', ''], ['3228', '3903.30.40', '- - In aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3229', '3903.30.50', '- - In non-aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3230', '3903.30.60', '- - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3231', '3903.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3903.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3232', '3903.90.30', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3233', '3903.90.91', '- - - Impact Polystyrene of notched izod\nimpact at 23°C less than 80 J/m', '5%', 'EX'], ['3234', '3903.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.04', 'Polymers of vinyl chloride or of other\nhalogenated olefins, in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '3904.10', '- Poly(vinyl chloride), not mixed with any\nother substances :', '', ''], ['3235', '3904.10.10', '- - Homopolymers, suspension type', '7%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3236', '3904.10.91', '- - - In the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3237', '3904.10.92', '- - - In the form of powder', '5%', 'EX'], ['3238', '3904.10.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other poly(vinyl chloride) :', '', ''], ['', '3904.21', '- - Non-plasticised :', '', ''], ['3239', '3904.21.10', '- - - In the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3240', '3904.21.20', '- - - In the form of powder', '5%', 'EX'], ['3241', '3904.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3904.22', '- - Plasticised :', '', ''], ['3242', '3904.22.10', '- - - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3243', '3904.22.20', '- - - in the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3244', '3904.22.30', '- - - In the form of powder', '5%', 'EX'], ['3245', '3904.22.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3904.30', '- Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate\ncopolymers :', '', ''], ['3246', '3904.30.10', '- - In the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3247', '3904.30.20', '- - In the form of powder', '5%', 'EX'], ['3248', '3904.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3904.40', '- Other vinyl chloride copolymers :', '', ''], ['3249', '3904.40.10', '- - In the form of granules', '5%', 'EX'], ['3250', '3904.40.20', '- - In the form of powder', '5%', 'EX'], ['3251', '3904.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3904.50', '- Vinylidene chloride polymers :', '', ''], ['3252', '3904.50.40', '- - In dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3253', '3904.50.50', '- - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3254', '3904.50.60', '- - In the form of powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['3255', '3904.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fluoro-polymers :', '', ''], ['', '3904.61', '- - Polytetrafluoroethylene :', '', ''], ['3256', '3904.61.10', '- - - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3257', '3904.61.20', '- - - In the form of powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['3258', '3904.61.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3904.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3259', '3904.69.30', '- - - In dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3260', '3904.69.40', '- - - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3261', '3904.69.50', '- - - In the form of powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['3262', '3904.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3904.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3263', '3904.90.30', '- - In dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3264', '3904.90.40', '- - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3265', '3904.90.50', '- - In the form of powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['3266', '3904.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.05', 'Polymers of vinyl acetate or of other\nvinyl esters, in primary forms; other\nvinyl polymers in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Poly(vinyl acetate) :', '', ''], ['3267', '3905.12.00', '- - In aqueous dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3905.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3268', '3905.19.10', '- - - In the form of liquids or pastes', '5%', 'EX'], ['3269', '3905.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Vinyl acetate copolymers :', '', ''], ['3270', '3905.21.00', '- - In aqueous dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3271', '3905.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3905.30', '- Poly(vinyl alcohol), whether or not\ncontaining unhydrolysed acetate groups :', '', ''], ['3272', '3905.30.10', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3273', '3905.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '3905.91', '- - Copolymers :', '', ''], ['3274', '3905.91.10', '- - - In dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3275', '3905.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3905.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3276', '3905.99.10', '- - - In aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3277', '3905.99.20', '- - - In non-aqueous dispersion', '0%', 'E0'], ['3278', '3905.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.06', 'Acrylic polymers in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '3906.10', '- Poly(methyl methacrylate) :', '', ''], ['3279', '3906.10.10', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'EX'], ['3280', '3906.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3906.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3281', '3906.90.20', '- - In dispersion', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3282', '3906.90.92', '- - - Sodium polyacrylate', '5%', 'EX'], ['3283', '3906.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.07', 'Polyacetals, other polyethers and\nepoxide resins, in primary forms;\npolycarbonates, alkyd resins, polyallyl\nesters and other polyesters, in primary\nforms.', '', ''], ['3284', '3907.10.00', '- Polyacetals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3907.20', '- Other polyethers :', '', ''], ['3285', '3907.20.10', '- - Polytetramethylene ether glycol', '0%', 'E0'], ['3286', '3907.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '3907.30', '- Epoxide resins :', '', ''], ['3287', '3907.30.20', '- - Of a kind used for coating, in powder\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['3288', '3907.30.30', '- - In the form of liquids or pastes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3289', '3907.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3290', '3907.40.00', '- Polycarbonates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3907.50', '- Alkyd resins :', '', ''], ['3291', '3907.50.10', '- - In the form of liquids or pastes', '5%', 'EX'], ['3292', '3907.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Poly(ethylene terephthalate) :', '', ''], ['3293', '3907.61.00', '- - Having a viscosity number of 78 ml/g\nor higher', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3907.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3294', '3907.69.10', '- - - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3295', '3907.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3296', '3907.70.00', '- Poly(lactic acid)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other polyesters :', '', ''], ['', '3907.91', '- - Unsaturated :', '', ''], ['3297', '3907.91.20', '- - - Granules and similar forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3298', '3907.91.30', '- - - In the form of liquids or pastes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3299', '3907.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3907.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3300', '3907.99.40', '- - - Of a kind used for coating, in powder\nform', '0%', 'E0'], ['3301', '3907.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.08', 'Polyamides in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '3908.10', '- Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10\nor -6,12 :', '', ''], ['3302', '3908.10.10', '- - Polyamide-6', '0%', 'E0'], ['3303', '3908.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3304', '3908.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.09', 'Amino-resins, phenolic resins and\npolyurethanes, in primary forms.', '', ''], ['', '3909.10', '- Urea resins; thiourea resins :', '', ''], ['3305', '3909.10.10', '- - Moulding compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['3306', '3909.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3909.20', '- Melamine resins :', '', ''], ['3307', '3909.20.10', '- - Moulding compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['3308', '3909.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other amino-resins :', '', ''], ['3309', '3909.31.00', '- - Poly(methylene phenyl isocyanate)\n(crude MDI, polymeric MDI)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3310', '3909.39.10', '- - - Moulding compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3311', '3909.39.91', '- - - - Glyoxal monourein resin', '0%', 'E0'], ['3312', '3909.39.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3909.40', '- Phenolic resins :', '', ''], ['3313', '3909.40.10', '- - Moulding compounds other than\nphenol formaldehyde', '0%', 'E0'], ['3314', '3909.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3315', '3909.50.00', '- Polyurethanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.10', 'Silicones in primary forms.', '', ''], ['3316', '3910.00.20', '- In dispersion and in solutions', '0%', 'E0'], ['3317', '3910.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.11', 'Petroleum resins, coumarone-indene\nresins, polyterpenes, polysulphides,\npolysulphones and other products\nspecified in Note 3 to this Chapter, not\nelsewhere specified or included, in', '', ''], ['', '', 'primary forms.', '', ''], ['3318', '3911.10.00', '- Petroleum resins, coumarone, indene or\ncoumarone-indene resins and\npolyterpenes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3319', '3911.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.12', 'Cellulose and its chemical derivatives,\nnot elsewhere specified or included, in\nprimary forms.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cellulose acetates :', '', ''], ['3320', '3912.11.00', '- - Non-plasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['3321', '3912.12.00', '- - Plasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3912.20', '- Cellulose nitrates (including\ncollodions) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Non-plasticised :', '', ''], ['3322', '3912.20.11', '- - - Water-based semi-finished\nnitrocellulose', '0%', 'E0'], ['3323', '3912.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3324', '3912.20.20', '- - Plasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Cellulose ethers :', '', ''], ['3325', '3912.31.00', '- - Carboxymethylcellulose and its salts', '0%', 'E0'], ['3326', '3912.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3912.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3327', '3912.90.20', '- - In the form of granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['3328', '3912.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.13', 'Natural polymers (for example, alginic\nacid) and modified natural polymers\n(for example, hardened proteins,\nchemical derivatives of natural\nrubber), not elsewhere specified or\nincluded, in primary forms.', '', ''], ['3329', '3913.10.00', '- Alginic acid, its salts and esters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3913.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3330', '3913.90.10', '- - Hardened proteins', '0%', 'E0'], ['3331', '3913.90.20', '- - Chemical derivatives of natural rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3332', '3913.90.30', '- - Starch-based polymers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3333', '3913.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3334', '3914.00.00', 'Ion-exchangers based on polymers of\nheadings 39.01 to 39.13, in primary\nforms.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nWASTE, PARINGS AND SCRAP;\nSEMI-MANUFACTURE; ARTICLES', '', ''], ['', '39.15', 'Waste, parings and scrap, of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3915.10', '- Of polymers of ethylene :', '', ''], ['3335', '3915.10.10', '- - Of non-rigid cellular products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3336', '3915.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3915.20', '- Of polymers of styrene :', '', ''], ['3337', '3915.20.10', '- - Of non-rigid cellular products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3338', '3915.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3915.30', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride :', '', ''], ['3339', '3915.30.10', '- - Of non-rigid cellular products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3340', '3915.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3341', '3915.90.00', '- Of other plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.16', 'Monofilament of which any cross-\nsectional dimension exceeds 1 mm,\nrods, sticks and profile shapes, whether\nor not surface-worked but not\notherwise worked, of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3916.10', '- Of polymers of ethylene :', '', ''], ['3342', '3916.10.10', '- - Monofilament', '0%', 'E0'], ['3343', '3916.10.20', '- - Rods, sticks and profile shapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3916.20', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride :', '', ''], ['3344', '3916.20.10', '- - Monofilament', '0%', 'E0'], ['3345', '3916.20.20', '- - Rods, sticks and profile shapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3916.90', '- Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of hardened proteins :', '', ''], ['3346', '3916.90.41', '- - - Monofilament', '0%', 'E0'], ['3347', '3916.90.42', '- - - Rods, sticks and profile shapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3348', '3916.90.50', '- - Of vulcanised fibre', '0%', 'E0'], ['3349', '3916.90.60', '- - Of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3350', '3916.90.70', '- - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts; of regenerated cellulose; of\ncellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate and\nother cellulose esters, cellulose ethers and\nother chemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['3351', '3916.90.80', '- - Of condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3352', '3916.90.91', '- - - Monofilament', '0%', 'E0'], ['3353', '3916.90.92', '- - - Rods, sticks and profile shapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.17', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, and fittings\ntherefor (for example, joints, elbows,\nflanges), of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3917.10', '- Artificial guts (sausage casings) of\nhardened protein or of cellulosic\nmaterials :', '', ''], ['3354', '3917.10.10', '- - Of hardened proteins', '0%', 'E0'], ['3355', '3917.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid :', '', ''], ['3356', '3917.21.00', '- - Of polymers of ethylene', '5%', 'EX'], ['3357', '3917.22.00', '- - Of polymers of propylene', '5%', 'EX'], ['3358', '3917.23.00', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3917.29', '- - Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Further worked than merely surface\nworked :', '', ''], ['3359', '3917.29.11', '- - - - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts', '5%', 'EX'], ['3360', '3917.29.12', '- - - - Of amino-resins; of cellulose\nnitrate, cellulose acetates and other\nchemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised; of vulcanised fibre; of\nhardened proteins; of chemical derivatives\nof natural rubber', '5%', 'EX'], ['3361', '3917.29.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3362', '3917.29.21', '- - - - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts', '5%', 'EX'], ['3363', '3917.29.22', '- - - - Of phenolic resins', '5%', 'EX'], ['3364', '3917.29.23', '- - - - Of amino-resins; of hardened\nproteins; of chemical derivatives of\nnatural rubber', '5%', 'EX'], ['3365', '3917.29.24', '- - - - Of cellulose nitrate, cellulose\nacetates and other chemical derivatives of\ncellulose, plasticised; of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'EX'], ['3366', '3917.29.25', '- - - - Of other condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products', '5%', 'EX'], ['3367', '3917.29.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other tubes, pipes and hoses :', '', ''], ['', '3917.31', '- - Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having\na minimum burst pressure of 27.6 Mpa :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Further worked than merely surface\nworked :', '', ''], ['3368', '3917.31.11', '- - - - Of addition polymerisation products', '5%', 'EX'], ['3369', '3917.31.12', '- - - - Of amino-resins; of phenolic resins;\nof vulcanised fibre; of chemical\nderivatives of natural rubber', '5%', 'EX'], ['3370', '3917.31.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3371', '3917.31.21', '- - - - Of addition polymerisation product', '5%', 'EX'], ['3372', '3917.31.23', '- - - - Of amino-resins; of phenolic resins;\nof chemical derivatives of natural rubber', '5%', 'EX'], ['3373', '3917.31.24', '- - - - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'EX'], ['3374', '3917.31.25', '- - - - Of other condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products;\nof cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetates and\nother chemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '5%', 'EX'], ['3375', '3917.31.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3917.32', '- - Other, not reinforced or otherwise\ncombined with other materials, without\nfittings :', '', ''], ['3376', '3917.32.10', '- - - Sausage or ham casings', '5%', 'E5'], ['3377', '3917.32.20', '- - - Thermoplastic hoses for gas stove', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Further worked than merely surface\nworked :', '', ''], ['3378', '3917.32.91', '- - - - - Of addition polymerisation\nproducts; of phenolic resins or amino\nresins; of chemical derivatives of natural', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', 'rubber', '', ''], ['3379', '3917.32.92', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['3380', '3917.32.93', '- - - - - Of addition polymerisation\nproducts', '5%', 'EX'], ['3381', '3917.32.94', '- - - - - Of amino-resins or phenolic\nresins; of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '5%', 'EX'], ['3382', '3917.32.95', '- - - - - Of other condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products;\nof vulcanised fibre; of cellulose nitrate,\ncellulose acetates and other chemical\nderivatives of cellulose, plasticised', '5%', 'EX'], ['3383', '3917.32.99', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3917.33', '- - Other, not reinforced or otherwise\ncombined with other materials, with\nfittings :', '', ''], ['3384', '3917.33.10', '- - - Other, further worked than merely\nsurface worked', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3385', '3917.33.91', '- - - - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts', '5%', 'E0'], ['3386', '3917.33.92', '- - - - Of condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products', '5%', 'E0'], ['3387', '3917.33.93', '- - - - Of cellulose nitrate, cellulose\nacetates and other chemical derivatives of\ncellulose, plasticised', '5%', 'E0'], ['3388', '3917.33.94', '- - - - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'E0'], ['3389', '3917.33.95', '- - - - Of hardened proteins', '5%', 'E0'], ['3390', '3917.33.96', '- - - - Of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '5%', 'E0'], ['3391', '3917.33.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3917.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Further worked than merely surface\nworked :', '', ''], ['3392', '3917.39.11', '- - - - Of addition polymerisation\nproducts; of vulcanised fibre', '0%', 'E0'], ['3393', '3917.39.12', '- - - - Of phenolic resins or amino resins;\nof chemical derivatives of natural rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3394', '3917.39.13', '- - - - Of cellulose nitrate, cellulose\nacetates and other chemical derivatives of\ncellulose, plasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['3395', '3917.39.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3396', '3917.39.91', '- - - - Of addition polymerisation\nproducts; of vulcanised fibre', '0%', 'E0'], ['3397', '3917.39.92', '- - - - Of phenolic resins or amino resins;\nof chemical derivatives of natural rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3398', '3917.39.93', '- - - - Of other condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products', '0%', 'E0'], ['3399', '3917.39.94', '- - - - Of cellulose nitrate, cellulose\nacetates and other chemical derivatives of\ncellulose, plasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['3400', '3917.39.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3401', '3917.40.00', '- Fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '39.18', 'Floor coverings of plastics, whether or\nnot self-adhesive, in rolls or in the form\nof tiles; wall or ceiling coverings of\nplastics, as defined in Note 9 to this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '3918.10', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Floor coverings :', '', ''], ['3402', '3918.10.11', '- - - Tiles', '5%', 'E0'], ['3403', '3918.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3404', '3918.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3918.90', '- Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Floor coverings :', '', ''], ['3405', '3918.90.11', '- - - Tiles, of polyethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['3406', '3918.90.13', '- - - Other, of polyethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['3407', '3918.90.14', '- - - Of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '5%', 'E0'], ['3408', '3918.90.15', '- - - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts; of condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products;\nof cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate or\nother chemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '5%', 'E0'], ['3409', '3918.90.16', '- - - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'E0'], ['3410', '3918.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3411', '3918.90.91', '- - - Of polyethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['3412', '3918.90.92', '- - - Of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '5%', 'E0'], ['3413', '3918.90.93', '- - - Of other addition polymerisation\nproducts; of condensation or\nrearrangement polymerisation products;\nof cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate or\nother chemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '5%', 'E0'], ['3414', '3918.90.94', '- - - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'E0'], ['3415', '3918.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '39.19', 'Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, foil,\ntape, strip and other flat shapes, of\nplastics, whether or not in rolls.', '', ''], ['', '3919.10', '- In rolls of a width not exceeding 20 cm :', '', ''], ['3416', '3919.10.10', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '0%', 'E0'], ['3417', '3919.10.20', '- - Of polyethylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3418', '3919.10.91', '- - - Of hardened proteins or chemical\nderivatives of natural rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3419', '3919.10.92', '- - - Of addition polymerisation products;\nof condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products; of cellulose\nnitrate, cellulose acetates and other\nchemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '0%', 'E0'], ['3420', '3919.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3919.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3421', '3919.90.10', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '5%', 'E10'], ['3422', '3919.90.20', '- - Of hardened proteins', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3423', '3919.90.91', '- - - Of chemical derivatives of natural\nrubber', '5%', 'E10'], ['3424', '3919.90.92', '- - - Of addition polymerisation products;\nof condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products; of cellulose\nnitrate, cellulose acetates and other\nchemical derivatives of cellulose,\nplasticised', '5%', 'E10'], ['3425', '3919.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '39.20', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip,\nof plastics, non-cellular and not\nreinforced, laminated, supported or\nsimilarly combined with other\nmaterials.', '', ''], ['', '3920.10', '- Of polymers of ethylene :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Plates and sheets :', '', ''], ['3426', '3920.10.11', '- - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['3427', '3920.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3428', '3920.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.20', '- Of polymers of propylene :', '', ''], ['3429', '3920.20.10', '- - Biaxially oriented polypropylene\n(BOPP) film', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3430', '3920.20.91', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3431', '3920.20.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.30', '- Of polymers of styrene :', '', ''], ['3432', '3920.30.20', '- - Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS)\nsheets of a kind used in the manufacture\nof refrigerators', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3433', '3920.30.91', '- - - Plates and sheets, rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['3434', '3920.30.92', '- - - Other, plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3435', '3920.30.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of polymers of vinyl chloride :', '', ''], ['', '3920.43', '- - Containing by weight not less than 6 %\nof plasticisers :', '', ''], ['3436', '3920.43.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3437', '3920.43.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3438', '3920.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of acrylic polymers :', '', ''], ['', '3920.51', '- - Of poly(methyl methacrylate) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Plates and sheets :', '', ''], ['3439', '3920.51.11', '- - - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['3440', '3920.51.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3441', '3920.51.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Plates and sheets :', '', ''], ['3442', '3920.59.11', '- - - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['3443', '3920.59.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3444', '3920.59.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of polycarbonates, alkyd resins,\npolyallyl esters or other polyesters :', '', ''], ['', '3920.61', '- - Of polycarbonates :', '', ''], ['3445', '3920.61.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3446', '3920.61.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.62', '- - Of poly(ethylene terephthalate) :', '', ''], ['3447', '3920.62.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3448', '3920.62.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.63', '- - Of unsaturated polyesters :', '', ''], ['3449', '3920.63.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3450', '3920.63.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.69', '- - Of other polyesters :', '', ''], ['3451', '3920.69.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3452', '3920.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of cellulose or its chemical derivatives :', '', ''], ['', '3920.71', '- - Of regenerated cellulose :', '', ''], ['3453', '3920.71.10', '- - - Cellophane film', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3454', '3920.71.91', '- - - - Printed sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3455', '3920.71.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3456', '3920.73.00', '- - Of cellulose acetate', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.79', '- - Of other cellulose derivatives :', '', ''], ['3457', '3920.79.10', '- - - Of nitrocellulose (gun cotton)', '5%', 'E0'], ['3458', '3920.79.20', '- - - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3459', '3920.79.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3460', '3920.79.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['', '3920.91', '- - Of poly(vinyl butyral) :', '', ''], ['3461', '3920.91.10', '- - - Film of a kind used in safety glass, of\na thickness exceeding 0.38 mm but not\nexceeding 0.76 mm, and of a width not\nexceeding 2 m', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3462', '3920.91.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3463', '3920.91.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3920.92', '- - Of polyamides :', '', ''], ['3464', '3920.92.10', '- - - Of polyamide-6', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3465', '3920.92.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3466', '3920.92.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3920.93', '- - Of amino-resins :', '', ''], ['3467', '3920.93.10', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E10'], ['3468', '3920.93.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '3920.94', '- - Of phenolic resins :', '', ''], ['3469', '3920.94.10', '- - - Phenol formaldehyde (bakelite)\nsheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3470', '3920.94.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3471', '3920.94.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3920.99', '- - Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['3472', '3920.99.10', '- - - Of hardened proteins; of chemical\nderivatives of natural rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of addition polymerisation products :', '', ''], ['3473', '3920.99.21', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3474', '3920.99.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Of condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products :', '', ''], ['3475', '3920.99.31', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3476', '3920.99.39', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3477', '3920.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.21', 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip,\nof plastics.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cellular :', '', ''], ['', '3921.11', '- - Of polymers of styrene :', '', ''], ['3478', '3921.11.20', '- - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3479', '3921.11.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3480', '3921.11.92', '- - - - Film', '5%', 'EX'], ['3481', '3921.11.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3482', '3921.12.00', '- - Of polymers of vinyl chloride', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3921.13', '- - Of polyurethanes :', '', ''], ['3483', '3921.13.10', '- - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3484', '3921.13.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3485', '3921.13.92', '- - - - Film', '5%', 'EX'], ['3486', '3921.13.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3921.14', '- - Of regenerated cellulose :', '', ''], ['3487', '3921.14.20', '- - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3488', '3921.14.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3489', '3921.14.92', '- - - - Film', '5%', 'EX'], ['3490', '3921.14.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3921.19', '- - Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['3491', '3921.19.20', '- - - Rigid', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3492', '3921.19.91', '- - - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'EX'], ['3493', '3921.19.92', '- - - - Film', '5%', 'EX'], ['3494', '3921.19.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3921.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3495', '3921.90.10', '- - Of vulcanised fibre', '5%', 'E0'], ['3496', '3921.90.20', '- - Of hardened proteins', '5%', 'E0'], ['3497', '3921.90.30', '- - Of chemical derivatives of natural', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'rubber', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of condensation or rearrangement\npolymerisation products :', '', ''], ['3498', '3921.90.41', '- - - Plates and sheets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3499', '3921.90.42', '- - - Film', '5%', 'E0'], ['3500', '3921.90.43', '- - - Textile laminated strip', '5%', 'E0'], ['3501', '3921.90.49', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['3502', '3921.90.50', '- - Of regenerated cellulose', '5%', 'E0'], ['3503', '3921.90.60', '- - Of other cellulose or its chemical\nderivatives', '5%', 'E0'], ['3504', '3921.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '39.22', 'Baths, shower-baths, sinks, wash-\nbasins, bidets, lavatory pans, seats and\ncovers, flushing cisterns and similar\nsanitary ware, of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3922.10', '- Baths, shower-baths, sinks and wash-\nbasins :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Baths :', '', ''], ['3505', '3922.10.11', '- - - Bathtubs having rectangular or\noblong interior shape', '5%', 'EX'], ['3506', '3922.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3507', '3922.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3508', '3922.20.00', '- Lavatory seats and covers', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3922.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Lavatory pans, flushing cisterns and\nurinals :', '', ''], ['3509', '3922.90.11', '- - - Parts of flushing cisterns', '5%', 'E10'], ['3510', '3922.90.12', '- - - Flushing cisterns equipped with their\nmechanisms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3511', '3922.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3512', '3922.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '39.23', 'Articles for the conveyance or packing\nof goods, of plastics; stoppers, lids, caps\nand other closures, of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3923.10', '- Boxes, cases, crates and similar articles :', '', ''], ['3513', '3923.10.10', '- - Cases for film, tape and optical discs', '5%', 'E10'], ['3514', '3923.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Sacks and bags (including cones) :', '', ''], ['', '3923.21', '- - Of polymers of ethylene :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Aseptic bags reinforced with\naluminium foil (other than retort\npouches) :', '', ''], ['3515', '3923.21.11', '- - - - Of a width of 315 mm or more and\nof a length of 410 mm or more,\nincorporating a sealed gland', '5%', 'EX'], ['3516', '3923.21.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3517', '3923.21.91', '- - - - Aseptic bags not reinforced with\naluminium foil (other than retort\npouches), of a width of 315 mm or more\nand of a length of 410 mm or more,\nincorporating a sealed gland', '5%', 'EX'], ['3518', '3923.21.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3923.29', '- - Of other plastics :', '', ''], ['3519', '3923.29.10', '- - - Aseptic bags whether or not\nreinforced with aluminium foil (other than\nretort pouches), of a width of 315 mm or\nmore and of a length of 410 mm or more,\nincorporating a sealed gland', '5%', 'E10'], ['3520', '3923.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '3923.30', '- Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar\narticles :', '', ''], ['3521', '3923.30.20', '- - Multi-layer fibreglass reinforced\ncontainers, for compressed or liquefied\ngas', '5%', 'EX'], ['3522', '3923.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3923.40', '- Spools, cops, bobbins and similar\nsupports :', '', ''], ['3523', '3923.40.10', '- - Suitable for use with the machines of\nheading 84.44, 84.45 or 84.48', '0%', 'E0'], ['3524', '3923.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3525', '3923.50.00', '- Stoppers, lids, caps and other closures', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '3923.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3526', '3923.90.10', '- - Toothpaste tubes', '5%', 'E10'], ['3527', '3923.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.24', 'Tableware, kitchenware, other\nhousehold articles and hygienic or toilet\narticles, of plastics.', '', ''], ['', '3924.10', '- Tableware and kitchenware :', '', ''], ['3528', '3924.10.10', '- - Of melamine', '5%', 'EX'], ['3529', '3924.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3924.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3530', '3924.90.10', '- - Bed pans, urinals (portable type) or\nchamber-pots', '5%', 'E15'], ['3531', '3924.90.20', '- - Nipple former, breastshells, nipple\nshields, hand expression funnel', '5%', 'EX'], ['3532', '3924.90.30', '- - Supplementary feeding system for\nbabies', '5%', 'EX'], ['3533', '3924.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.25', 'Builders’ ware of plastics, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['3534', '3925.10.00', '- Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers, of a capacity exceeding 300 l', '5%', 'E15'], ['3535', '3925.20.00', '- Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors', '0%', 'E0'], ['3536', '3925.30.00', '- Shutters, blinds (including Venetian\nblinds) and similar articles and parts\nthereof', '5%', 'EX'], ['3537', '3925.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '39.26', 'Other articles of plastics and articles of\nother materials of headings 39.01 to\n39.14.', '', ''], ['3538', '3926.10.00', '- Office or school supplies', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '3926.20', '- Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories (including gloves, mittens and\nmitts) :', '', ''], ['3539', '3926.20.60', '- - Articles of apparel used for protection\nfrom chemical substances, radiation or\nfire', '5%', 'E0'], ['3540', '3926.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3541', '3926.30.00', '- Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the\nlike', '5%', 'EX'], ['3542', '3926.40.00', '- Statuettes and other ornamental articles', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '3926.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3543', '3926.90.10', '- - Floats for fishing nets', '5%', 'E0'], ['3544', '3926.90.20', '- - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Hygienic, medical and surgical\narticles :', '', ''], ['3545', '3926.90.32', '- - - Plastic moulds with denture imprints', '0%', 'E0'], ['3546', '3926.90.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Safety and protective devices :', '', ''], ['3547', '3926.90.41', '- - - Police shields', '5%', 'E0'], ['3548', '3926.90.42', '- - - Protective masks for use in welding\nand similar work', '5%', 'E0'], ['3549', '3926.90.44', '- - - Life saving cushions for the\nprotection of persons falling from heights', '5%', 'E0'], ['3550', '3926.90.49', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Articles for industrial uses :', '', ''], ['3551', '3926.90.53', '- - - Transmission or conveyor belts or\nbelting', '0%', 'E0'], ['3552', '3926.90.55', '- - - Plastic J-hooks or bunch blocks for\ndetonators', '5%', 'E0'], ['3553', '3926.90.59', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['3554', '3926.90.60', '- - Poultry feeders', '5%', 'E10'], ['3555', '3926.90.70', '- - Padding for articles of apparel or\nclothing accessories', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Cards for jewellery or small objects of\npersonal adornment; beads; shoe lasts :', '', ''], ['3556', '3926.90.81', '- - - Shoe lasts', '5%', 'E0'], ['3557', '3926.90.82', '- - - Prayer beads', '5%', 'E0'], ['3558', '3926.90.89', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3559', '3926.90.91', '- - - Of a kind used for grain storage', '5%', 'EX'], ['3560', '3926.90.92', '- - - Empty capsules of a kind suitable for\npharmaceutical use', '5%', 'E0'], ['3561', '3926.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '40.01', 'Natural rubber, balata, gutta-percha,\nguayule, chicle and similar natural\ngums, in primary forms or in plates,\nsheets or strip.', '', ''], ['', '4001.10', '- Natural rubber latex, whether or not pre-\nvulcanised :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Exceeding 0.5 % by volume of\nammonia content :', '', ''], ['3562', '4001.10.11', '- - - Centrifuged concentrate rubber latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['3563', '4001.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not exceeding 0.5 % by volume of\nammonia content :', '', ''], ['3564', '4001.10.21', '- - - Centrifuged concentrate rubber latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['3565', '4001.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Natural rubber in other forms :', '', ''], ['', '4001.21', '- - Smoked sheets :', '', ''], ['3566', '4001.21.10', '- - - RSS Grade 1', '0%', 'E0'], ['3567', '4001.21.20', '- - - RSS Grade 2', '0%', 'E0'], ['3568', '4001.21.30', '- - - RSS Grade 3', '0%', 'E0'], ['3569', '4001.21.40', '- - - RSS Grade 4', '0%', 'E0'], ['3570', '4001.21.50', '- - - RSS Grade 5', '0%', 'E0'], ['3571', '4001.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4001.22', '- - Technically specified natural rubber\n(TSNR) :', '', ''], ['3572', '4001.22.10', '- - - TSNR 10', '0%', 'E0'], ['3573', '4001.22.20', '- - - TSNR 20', '0%', 'E0'], ['3574', '4001.22.30', '- - - TSNR L', '0%', 'E0'], ['3575', '4001.22.40', '- - - TSNR CV', '0%', 'E0'], ['3576', '4001.22.50', '- - - TSNR GP', '0%', 'E0'], ['3577', '4001.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4001.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3578', '4001.29.10', '- - - Air-dried sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3579', '4001.29.20', '- - - Latex crepes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3580', '4001.29.30', '- - - Sole crepes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3581', '4001.29.40', '- - - Remilled crepes, including flat bark\ncrepes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3582', '4001.29.50', '- - - Other crepes', '0%', 'E0'], ['3583', '4001.29.60', '- - - Superior processing rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3584', '4001.29.70', '- - - Skim rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3585', '4001.29.80', '- - - Scrap (tree, earth or smoked) and cup\nlump', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3586', '4001.29.91', '- - - - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3587', '4001.29.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4001.30', '- Balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and\nsimilar natural gums :', '', ''], ['3588', '4001.30.20', '- - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3589', '4001.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.02', 'Synthetic rubber and factice derived\nfrom oils, in primary forms or in plates,\nsheets or strip; mixtures of any product\nof heading 40.01 with any product of\nthis heading, in primary forms or in\nplates, sheets or strip.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR);\ncarboxylated styrene-butadiene rubber\n(XSBR) :', '', ''], ['3590', '4002.11.00', '- - Latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3591', '4002.19.10', '- - - In primary forms or in unvulcanised,\nuncompounded plates, sheets or strip', '0%', 'E0'], ['3592', '4002.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.20', '- Butadiene rubber (BR) :', '', ''], ['3593', '4002.20.10', '- - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3594', '4002.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Isobutene-isoprene (butyl) rubber (IIR);\nhalo-isobutene-isoprene rubber (CIIR or\nBIIR) :', '', ''], ['', '4002.31', '- - Isobutene-isoprene (butyl) rubber\n(IIR) :', '', ''], ['3595', '4002.31.10', '- - - Unvulcanised, uncompounded plates,\nsheets or strip', '0%', 'E0'], ['3596', '4002.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3597', '4002.39.10', '- - - Unvulcanised, uncompounded plates,\nsheets or strip', '0%', 'E0'], ['3598', '4002.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Chloroprene (chlorobutadiene) rubber\n(CR) :', '', ''], ['3599', '4002.41.00', '- - Latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3600', '4002.49.10', '- - - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3601', '4002.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Acrylonitrile-butadiene rubber (NBR) :', '', ''], ['3602', '4002.51.00', '- - Latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3603', '4002.59.10', '- - - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3604', '4002.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.60', '- Isoprene rubber (IR) :', '', ''], ['3605', '4002.60.10', '- - In primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['3606', '4002.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.70', '- Ethylene-propylene-non-conjugated\ndiene rubber (EPDM) :', '', ''], ['3607', '4002.70.10', '- - In primary forms', '5%', 'E0'], ['3608', '4002.70.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.80', '- Mixtures of any product of heading\n40.01 with any product of this heading :', '', ''], ['3609', '4002.80.10', '- - Mixtures of natural rubber latex with\nsynthetic rubber latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['3610', '4002.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3611', '4002.91.00', '- - Latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4002.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3612', '4002.99.20', '- - - In primary forms or in unvulcanised,\nuncompounded plates, sheets or strip', '0%', 'E0'], ['3613', '4002.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3614', '4003.00.00', 'Reclaimed rubber in primary forms or\nin plates, sheets or strip.', '0%', 'E0'], ['3615', '4004.00.00', 'Waste, parings and scrap of rubber\n(other than hard rubber) and powders\nand granules obtained therefrom.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.05', 'Compounded rubber, unvulcanised, in\nprimary forms or in plates, sheets or\nstrip.', '', ''], ['', '4005.10', '- Compounded with carbon black or\nsilica :', '', ''], ['3616', '4005.10.10', '- - Of natural gums', '0%', 'E0'], ['3617', '4005.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3618', '4005.20.00', '- Solutions; dispersions other than those\nof subheading 4005.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4005.91', '- - Plates, sheets and strip :', '', ''], ['3619', '4005.91.10', '- - - Of natural gums', '0%', 'E0'], ['3620', '4005.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4005.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3621', '4005.99.10', '- - - Latex', '0%', 'E0'], ['3622', '4005.99.20', '- - - Natural rubber compounded with\nsubstances other than carbon or silica', '0%', 'E0'], ['3623', '4005.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.06', 'Other forms (for example, rods, tubes\nand profile shapes) and articles (for\nexample, discs and rings), of\nunvulcanised rubber.', '', ''], ['3624', '4006.10.00', '- “Camel-back” strips for retreading\nrubber tyres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4006.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of natural gums :', '', ''], ['3625', '4006.90.11', '- - - Articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3626', '4006.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3627', '4006.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3628', '4007.00.00', 'Vulcanised rubber thread and cord.', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '40.08', 'Plates, sheets, strip, rods and profile\nshapes, of vulcanised rubber other than\nhard rubber.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of cellular rubber :', '', ''], ['', '4008.11', '- - Plates, sheets and strip :', '', ''], ['3629', '4008.11.10', '- - - Exceeding 5 mm in thickness, lined\nwith textile fabric on one side', '0%', 'E0'], ['3630', '4008.11.20', '- - - Other, floor tiles and wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3631', '4008.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3632', '4008.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of non-cellular rubber :', '', ''], ['', '4008.21', '- - Plates, sheets and strip :', '', ''], ['3633', '4008.21.10', '- - - Exceeding 5 mm in thickness, lined\nwith textile fabric on one side', '0%', 'E0'], ['3634', '4008.21.20', '- - - Other, floor tiles and wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3635', '4008.21.30', '- - - Water stop', '0%', 'E0'], ['3636', '4008.21.40', '- - - Rubber soling sheet', '0%', 'E0'], ['3637', '4008.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3638', '4008.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.09', 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised\nrubber other than hard rubber, with or\nwithout their fittings (for example,\njoints, elbows, flanges).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not reinforced or otherwise combined\nwith other materials :', '', ''], ['3639', '4009.11.00', '- - Without fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4009.12', '- - With fittings :', '', ''], ['3640', '4009.12.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3641', '4009.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Reinforced or otherwise combined only\nwith metal :', '', ''], ['', '4009.21', '- - Without fittings :', '', ''], ['3642', '4009.21.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3643', '4009.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4009.22', '- - With fittings :', '', ''], ['3644', '4009.22.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3645', '4009.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Reinforced or otherwise combined only\nwith textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '4009.31', '- - Without fittings :', '', ''], ['3646', '4009.31.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3647', '4009.31.20', '- - - Rubber hose of a kind used for gas\nstove', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3648', '4009.31.91', '- - - - Fuel hoses, heater hoses and water\nhoses, of a kind used on motor vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['3649', '4009.31.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4009.32', '- - With fittings :', '', ''], ['3650', '4009.32.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3651', '4009.32.20', '- - - Rubber hose of a kind used for gas\nstove', '0%', 'E0'], ['3652', '4009.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Reinforced or otherwise combined with\nother materials :', '', ''], ['', '4009.41', '- - Without fittings :', '', ''], ['3653', '4009.41.10', '- - - Rubber hose of a kind used for gas\nstove', '0%', 'E0'], ['3654', '4009.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4009.42', '- - With fittings :', '', ''], ['3655', '4009.42.10', '- - - Mining slurry suction and discharge\nhoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3656', '4009.42.20', '- - - Rubber hose of a kind used for gas\nstove', '0%', 'E0'], ['3657', '4009.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.10', 'Conveyor or transmission belts or\nbelting, of vulcanised rubber.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Conveyor belts or belting :', '', ''], ['3658', '4010.11.00', '- - Reinforced only with metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['3659', '4010.12.00', '- - Reinforced only with textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['3660', '4010.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Transmission belts or belting :', '', ''], ['3661', '4010.31.00', '- - Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference\nexceeding 60 cm but not exceeding 180\ncm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3662', '4010.32.00', '- - Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other\nthan V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but not\nexceeding 180 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3663', '4010.33.00', '- - Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), V-\nribbed, of an outside circumference\nexceeding 180 cm but not exceeding 240\ncm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3664', '4010.34.00', '- - Endless transmission belts of\ntrapezoidal cross-section (V-belts), other\nthan V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 180 cm but not\nexceeding 240 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3665', '4010.35.00', '- - Endless synchronous belts, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 60 cm\nbut not exceeding 150 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3666', '4010.36.00', '- - Endless synchronous belts, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 150 cm\nbut not exceeding 198 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3667', '4010.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.11', 'New pneumatic tyres, of rubber.', '', ''], ['3668', '4011.10.00', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including\nstation wagons and racing cars)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4011.20', '- Of a kind used on buses or lorries :', '', ''], ['3669', '4011.20.10', '- - Of a width not exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3670', '4011.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3671', '4011.30.00', '- Of a kind used on aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['3672', '4011.40.00', '- Of a kind used on motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3673', '4011.50.00', '- Of a kind used on bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3674', '4011.70.00', '- Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry\nvehicles and machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4011.80', '- Of a kind used on construction, mining\nor industrial handling vehicles and\nmachines :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Having a rim size not exceeding 61\ncm :', '', ''], ['3675', '4011.80.11', '- - - Of a kind used on tractors, machinery\nof heading 84.29 or 84.30, forklifts,\nwheel-barrows or other industrial', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'handling vehicles and machines', '', ''], ['3676', '4011.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Having a rim size exceeding 61 cm :', '', ''], ['3677', '4011.80.21', '- - - Of a kind used on tractors, machinery\nof heading 84.29 or 84.30, forklifts or\nother industrial handling vehicles and\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['3678', '4011.80.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4011.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3679', '4011.90.10', '- - Of a kind used on vehicles of Chapter\n87', '0%', 'E0'], ['3680', '4011.90.20', '- - Of a kind used on machinery of\nheading 84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['3681', '4011.90.30', '- - Other, of a width exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3682', '4011.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.12', 'Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of\nrubber; solid or cushion tyres, tyre\ntreads and tyre flaps, of rubber.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Retreaded tyres :', '', ''], ['3683', '4012.11.00', '- - Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons and racing cars)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4012.12', '- - Of a kind used on buses or lorries :', '', ''], ['3684', '4012.12.10', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3685', '4012.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3686', '4012.13.00', '- - Of a kind used on aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4012.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3687', '4012.19.30', '- - - Of a kind used on machinery of\nheading 84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['3688', '4012.19.40', '- - - Of a kind used on vehicles of Chapter\n87', '0%', 'E0'], ['3689', '4012.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4012.20', '- Used pneumatic tyres :', '', ''], ['3690', '4012.20.10', '- - Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons, racing cars)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on buses or lorries :', '', ''], ['3691', '4012.20.21', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3692', '4012.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3693', '4012.20.30', '- - Of a kind used on aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['3694', '4012.20.40', '- - Of a kind used on motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3695', '4012.20.50', '- - Of a kind used on bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3696', '4012.20.60', '- - Of a kind used on machinery of\nheading 84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['3697', '4012.20.70', '- - Of a kind used on other vehicles of\nChapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3698', '4012.20.91', '- - - Buffed tyres', '0%', 'E0'], ['3699', '4012.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4012.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Solid tyres :', '', ''], ['3700', '4012.90.14', '- - - Solid tyres exceeding 250 mm in\nexternal diameter, of a width not\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3701', '4012.90.15', '- - - Solid tyres exceeding 250 mm in\nexternal diameter, of a width exceeding\n450 mm, for use on vehicles of heading\n87.09', '0%', 'E0'], ['3702', '4012.90.16', '- - - Other solid tyres exceeding 250 mm\nin external diameter, of a width exceeding\n450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3703', '4012.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Cushion tyres :', '', ''], ['3704', '4012.90.21', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3705', '4012.90.22', '- - - Of a width exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3706', '4012.90.70', '- - Replaceable tyre treads of a width not\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3707', '4012.90.80', '- - Tyre flaps', '0%', 'E0'], ['3708', '4012.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.13', 'Inner tubes, of rubber.', '', ''], ['', '4013.10', '- Of a kind used on motor cars (including\nstation wagons and racing cars), buses or\nlorries :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on motor cars\n(including station wagons and racing\ncars) :', '', ''], ['3709', '4013.10.11', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nnot exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3710', '4013.10.19', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on buses or lorries :', '', ''], ['3711', '4013.10.21', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nnot exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3712', '4013.10.29', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3713', '4013.20.00', '- Of a kind used on bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4013.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on machinery of\nheading 84.29 or 84.30 :', '', ''], ['3714', '4013.90.11', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nnot exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3715', '4013.90.19', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3716', '4013.90.20', '- - Of a kind used on motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on other vehicles of\nChapter 87 :', '', ''], ['3717', '4013.90.31', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nnot exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3718', '4013.90.39', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3719', '4013.90.40', '- - Of a kind used on aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3720', '4013.90.91', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nnot exceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3721', '4013.90.99', '- - - Suitable for fitting to tyres of a width\nexceeding 450 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.14', 'Hygienic or pharmaceutical articles\n(including teats), of vulcanised rubber\nother than hard rubber, with or\nwithout fittings of hard rubber.', '', ''], ['3722', '4014.10.00', '- Sheath contraceptives', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4014.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3723', '4014.90.10', '- - Teats for feeding bottles and similar\narticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3724', '4014.90.40', '- - Stoppers for pharmaceutical use', '0%', 'E0'], ['3725', '4014.90.50', '- - Finger stalls', '0%', 'E0'], ['3726', '4014.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.15', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories (including gloves, mittens\nand mitts), for all purposes, of\nvulcanised rubber other than hard\nrubber.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Gloves, mittens and mitts :', '', ''], ['3727', '4015.11.00', '- - Surgical', '0%', 'E0'], ['3728', '4015.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4015.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3729', '4015.90.10', '- - Lead aprons', '0%', 'E0'], ['3730', '4015.90.20', "- - Divers' suits (wet suits)", '0%', 'E0'], ['3731', '4015.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.16', 'Other articles of vulcanised rubber\nother than hard rubber.', '', ''], ['', '4016.10', '- Of cellular rubber :', '', ''], ['3732', '4016.10.10', '- - Padding for articles of apparel or\nclothing accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['3733', '4016.10.20', '- - Floor tiles and wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3734', '4016.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4016.91', '- - Floor coverings and mats :', '', ''], ['3735', '4016.91.10', '- - - Mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3736', '4016.91.20', '- - - Tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3737', '4016.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4016.92', '- - Erasers :', '', ''], ['3738', '4016.92.10', '- - - Eraser tips', '0%', 'E0'], ['3739', '4016.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4016.93', '- - Gaskets, washers and other seals :', '', ''], ['3740', '4016.93.10', '- - - Of a kind used to insulate the\nterminal leads of electrolytic capacitors', '0%', 'E0'], ['3741', '4016.93.20', '- - - Gaskets and o-rings, of a kind used\non motor vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['3742', '4016.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3743', '4016.94.00', '- - Boat or dock fenders, whether or not\ninflatable', '0%', 'E0'], ['3744', '4016.95.00', '- - Other inflatable articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4016.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Parts and accessories of a kind used\nfor vehicles of Chapter 87 :', '', ''], ['3745', '4016.99.11', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03, 87.04 or 87.05, other than\nweatherstripping', '0%', 'E0'], ['3746', '4016.99.12', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['3747', '4016.99.13', '- - - - Weatherstripping, of a kind used on\nmotor vehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03 or\n87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['3748', '4016.99.15', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.09,\n87.13, 87.15 or 87.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['3749', '4016.99.16', '- - - - Bicycle mudguards', '0%', 'E0'], ['3750', '4016.99.17', '- - - - Bicycle parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['3751', '4016.99.18', '- - - - Other bicycle accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['3752', '4016.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3753', '4016.99.20', '- - - Parts and accessories of rotochutes of\nheading 88.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['3754', '4016.99.30', '- - - Rubber bands', '0%', 'E0'], ['3755', '4016.99.40', '- - - Wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other articles of a kind used in\nmachinery or mechanical or electrical\nappliances, or for other technical uses :', '', ''], ['3756', '4016.99.51', '- - - - Rubber rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3757', '4016.99.52', '- - - - Tyre mould bladders', '0%', 'E0'], ['3758', '4016.99.53', '- - - - Electrical insulator hoods', '0%', 'E0'], ['3759', '4016.99.54', '- - - - Rubber grommets and rubber covers\nfor automotive wiring harnesses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3760', '4016.99.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3761', '4016.99.60', '- - - Rail pads', '0%', 'E0'], ['3762', '4016.99.70', '- - - Structural bearings including bridge\nbearings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3763', '4016.99.91', '- - - - Table coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['3764', '4016.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '40.17', 'Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in\nall forms, including waste and scrap;\narticles of hard rubber.', '', ''], ['3765', '4017.00.10', '- Floor tiles and wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3766', '4017.00.20', '- Other articles of hard rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['3767', '4017.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.01', 'Raw hides and skins of bovine\n(including buffalo) or equine animals\n(fresh, or salted, dried, limed, pickled\nor otherwise preserved, but not tanned,\nparchment-dressed or further\nprepared), whether or not dehaired or\nsplit.', '', ''], ['3768', '4101.20.00', '- Whole hides and skins, unsplit, of a\nweight per skin not exceeding 8 kg when\nsimply dried, 10 kg when dry-salted, or\n16 kg when fresh, wet-salted or otherwise', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'preserved', '', ''], ['3769', '4101.50.00', '- Whole hides and skins, of a weight\nexceeding 16 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4101.90', '- Other, including butts, bends and\nbellies :', '', ''], ['3770', '4101.90.10', '- - Pre-tanned', '0%', 'E0'], ['3771', '4101.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.02', 'Raw skins of sheep or lambs (fresh, or\nsalted, dried, limed, pickled or\notherwise preserved, but not tanned,\nparchment-dressed or further\nprepared), whether or not with wool on\nor split, other than those excluded by\nNote 1 (c) to this Chapter.', '', ''], ['3772', '4102.10.00', '- With wool on', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Without wool on :', '', ''], ['3773', '4102.21.00', '- - Pickled', '0%', 'E0'], ['3774', '4102.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.03', 'Other raw hides and skins (fresh, or\nsalted, dried, limed, pickled or\notherwise preserved, but not tanned,\nparchment-dressed or further\nprepared), whether or not dehaired or\nsplit, other than those excluded by Note\n1(b) or 1(c) to this Chapter.', '', ''], ['3775', '4103.20.00', '- Of reptiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3776', '4103.30.00', '- Of swine', '0%', 'E0'], ['3777', '4103.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.04', 'Tanned or crust hides and skins of\nbovine (including buffalo) or equine\nanimals, without hair on, whether or\nnot split, but not further prepared.', '', ''], ['', '', '- In the wet state (including wet-blue) :', '', ''], ['', '4104.11', '- - Full grains, unsplit; grain splits :', '', ''], ['3778', '4104.11.10', '- - - Of bovine, vegetable tanned', '0%', 'E0'], ['3779', '4104.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3780', '4104.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- In the dry state (crust) :', '', ''], ['3781', '4104.41.00', '- - Full grains, unsplit; grain splits', '0%', 'E0'], ['3782', '4104.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.05', 'Tanned or crust skins of sheep or\nlambs, without wool on, whether or not\nsplit, but not further prepared.', '', ''], ['3783', '4105.10.00', '- In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3784', '4105.30.00', '- In the dry state (crust)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.06', 'Tanned or crust hides and skins of\nother animals, without wool or hair on,\nwhether or not split, but not further\nprepared.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of goats or kids :', '', ''], ['3785', '4106.21.00', '- - In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3786', '4106.22.00', '- - In the dry state (crust)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of swine :', '', ''], ['3787', '4106.31.00', '- - In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3788', '4106.32.00', '- - In the dry state (crust)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3789', '4106.40.00', '- Of reptiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3790', '4106.91.00', '- - In the wet state (including wet-blue)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3791', '4106.92.00', '- - In the dry state (crust)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.07', 'Leather further prepared after tanning\nor crusting, including parchment-\ndressed leather, of bovine (including\nbuffalo) or equine animals, without\nhair on, whether or not split, other than\nleather of heading 41.14.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Whole hides and skins :', '', ''], ['3792', '4107.11.00', '- - Full grains, unsplit', '0%', 'E0'], ['3793', '4107.12.00', '- - Grain splits', '0%', 'E0'], ['3794', '4107.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, including sides :', '', ''], ['3795', '4107.91.00', '- - Full grains, unsplit', '0%', 'E0'], ['3796', '4107.92.00', '- - Grain splits', '0%', 'E0'], ['3797', '4107.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3798', '4112.00.00', 'Leather further prepared after tanning\nor crusting, including parchment-\ndressed leather, of sheep or lamb,\nwithout wool on, whether or not split,\nother than leather of heading 41.14.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.13', 'Leather further prepared after tanning\nor crusting, including parchment-\ndressed leather, of other animals,\nwithout wool or hair on, whether or not\nsplit, other than leather of heading\n41.14.', '', ''], ['3799', '4113.10.00', '- Of goats or kids', '0%', 'E0'], ['3800', '4113.20.00', '- Of swine', '0%', 'E0'], ['3801', '4113.30.00', '- Of reptiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['3802', '4113.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.14', 'Chamois (including combination\nchamois) leather; patent leather and\npatent laminated leather; metallised\nleather.', '', ''], ['3803', '4114.10.00', '- Chamois (including combination\nchamois) leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['3804', '4114.20.00', '- Patent leather and patent laminated\nleather; metallised leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '41.15', 'Composition leather with a basis of\nleather or leather fibre, in slabs, sheets\nor strip, whether or not in rolls; parings\nand other waste of leather or of\ncomposition leather, not suitable for the\nmanufacture of leather articles; leather', '', ''], ['', '', 'dust, powder and flour.', '', ''], ['3805', '4115.10.00', '- Composition leather with a basis of\nleather or leather fibre, in slabs, sheets or\nstrip, whether or not in rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['3806', '4115.20.00', '- Parings and other waste of leather or of\ncomposition leather, not suitable for the\nmanufacture of leather articles; leather\ndust, powder and flour', '0%', 'E0'], ['3807', '4201.00.00', 'Saddlery and harness for any animal\n(including traces, leads, knee pads,\nmuzzles, saddle cloths, saddle bags, dog\ncoats and the like), of any material.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '42.02', 'Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases,\nexecutive-cases, brief-cases, school\nsatchels, spectacle cases, binocular\ncases, camera cases, musical instrument\ncases, gun cases, holsters and similar\ncontainers; travelling-bags, insulated\nfood or beverages bags, toilet bags,\nrucksacks, handbags, shopping-bags,\nwallets, purses, map-cases, cigarette-\ncases, tobacco-pouches, tool bags,\nsports bags, bottle-cases, jewellery\nboxes, powder-boxes, cutlery cases and\nsimilar containers, of leather or of\ncomposition leather, of sheeting of\nplastics, of textile materials, of\nvulcanised fibre or of paperboard, or\nwholly or mainly covered with such\nmaterials or with paper.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases,\nexecutive-cases, brief-cases, school\nsatchels and similar containers :', '', ''], ['', '4202.11', '- - With outer surface of leather or of\ncomposition leather :', '', ''], ['3808', '4202.11.10', '- - - Suit-case or brief-case with\nmaximum dimensions of 56 cm x 45 cm x\n25 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['3809', '4202.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4202.12', '- - With outer surface of plastics or of\ntextile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - School satchels :', '', ''], ['3810', '4202.12.11', '- - - - With outer surface of vulcanised\nfibre', '0%', 'E0'], ['3811', '4202.12.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3812', '4202.12.91', '- - - - With outer surface of vulcanised\nfibre', '0%', 'E0'], ['3813', '4202.12.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4202.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3814', '4202.19.20', '- - - With outer surface of paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['3815', '4202.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Handbags, whether or not with shoulder\nstrap, including those without handle :', '', ''], ['3816', '4202.21.00', '- - With outer surface of leather or of\ncomposition leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['3817', '4202.22.00', '- - With outer surface of sheeting of\nplastics or of textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['3818', '4202.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Articles of a kind normally carried in the\npocket or in the handbag :', '', ''], ['3819', '4202.31.00', '- - With outer surface of leather or of\ncomposition leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['3820', '4202.32.00', '- - With outer surface of sheeting of\nplastics or of textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['3821', '4202.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4202.91', '- - With outer surface of leather or of\ncomposition leather :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Sports bags :', '', ''], ['3822', '4202.91.11', '- - - - Bowling bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['3823', '4202.91.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3824', '4202.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4202.92', '- - With outer surface of sheeting of\nplastics or of textile materials :', '', ''], ['3825', '4202.92.10', '- - - Toiletry bags, of sheeting of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['3826', '4202.92.20', '- - - Bowling bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['3827', '4202.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4202.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3828', '4202.99.10', '- - - With outer surface of vulcanised fibre\nor paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['3829', '4202.99.20', '- - - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['3830', '4202.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '42.03', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories, of leather or of composition\nleather.', '', ''], ['3831', '4203.10.00', '- Articles of apparel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Gloves, mittens and mitts :', '', ''], ['3832', '4203.21.00', '- - Specially designed for use in sports', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4203.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3833', '4203.29.10', '- - - Protective work gloves', '0%', 'E0'], ['3834', '4203.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3835', '4203.30.00', '- Belts and bandoliers', '0%', 'E0'], ['3836', '4203.40.00', '- Other clothing accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '42.05', 'Other articles of leather or of\ncomposition leather.', '', ''], ['3837', '4205.00.10', '- Boot laces; mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3838', '4205.00.20', '- Industrial safety belts and harnesses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3839', '4205.00.30', '- Leather strings or chords of a kind used\nfor jewellery or articles of personal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'adornment', '', ''], ['3840', '4205.00.40', '- Other articles of a kind used in\nmachinery or mechanical appliances or\nfor other technical uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3841', '4205.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3842', '4206.00.00', "Articles of gut (other than silk-worm\ngut), of goldbeater's skin, of bladders\nor of tendons.", '0%', 'E0'], ['', '43.01', "Raw furskins (including heads, tails,\npaws and other pieces or cuttings,\nsuitable for furriers' use), other than\nraw hides and skins of heading 41.01,\n41.02 or 41.03.", '', ''], ['3843', '4301.10.00', '- Of mink, whole, with or without head,\ntail or paws', '0%', 'E0'], ['3844', '4301.30.00', '- Of lamb, the following : Astrakhan,\nBroadtail, Caracul, Persian and similar\nlamb, Indian, Chinese, Mongolian or\nTibetan lamb, whole, with or without\nhead, tail or paws', '0%', 'E0'], ['3845', '4301.60.00', '- Of fox, whole, with or without head, tail\nor paws', '0%', 'E0'], ['3846', '4301.80.00', '- Other furskins, whole, with or without\nhead, tail or paws', '0%', 'E0'], ['3847', '4301.90.00', "- Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or\ncuttings, suitable for furriers' use", '0%', 'E0'], ['', '43.02', 'Tanned or dressed furskins (including\nheads, tails, paws and other pieces or\ncuttings), unassembled, or assembled\n(without the addition of other\nmaterials) other than those of heading\n43.03.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Whole skins, with or without head, tail\nor paws, not assembled :', '', ''], ['3848', '4302.11.00', '- - Of mink', '0%', 'E0'], ['3849', '4302.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3850', '4302.20.00', '- Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or\ncuttings, not assembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['3851', '4302.30.00', '- Whole skins and pieces or cuttings\nthereof, assembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '43.03', 'Articles of apparel, clothing accessories\nand other articles of furskin.', '', ''], ['3852', '4303.10.00', '- Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4303.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3853', '4303.90.20', '- - Articles for industrial uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['3854', '4303.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '43.04', 'Artificial fur and articles thereof.', '', ''], ['3855', '4304.00.10', '- Artificial fur', '0%', 'E0'], ['3856', '4304.00.20', '- Articles for industrial uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3857', '4304.00.91', '- - Sports bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['3858', '4304.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.01', 'Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in\nfaggots or in similar forms; wood in\nchips or particles; sawdust and wood\nwaste and scrap, whether or not\nagglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets\nor similar forms.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in\nfaggots or in similar forms :', '', ''], ['3859', '4401.11.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['3860', '4401.12.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Wood in chips or particles :', '', ''], ['3861', '4401.21.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['3862', '4401.22.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Sawdust and wood waste and scrap,\nagglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets\nor similar forms :', '', ''], ['3863', '4401.31.00', '- - Wood pellets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3864', '4401.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3865', '4401.40.00', '- Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, not\nagglomerated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.02', 'Wood charcoal (including shell or nut\ncharcoal), whether or not\nagglomerated.', '', ''], ['3866', '4402.10.00', '- Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4402.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3867', '4402.90.10', '- - Of coconut shell', '0%', 'E0'], ['3868', '4402.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.03', 'Wood in the rough, whether or not\nstripped of bark or sapwood, or\nroughly squared.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Treated with paint, stains, creosote or\nother preservatives :', '', ''], ['', '4403.11', '- - Coniferous :', '', ''], ['3869', '4403.11.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3870', '4403.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.12', '- - Non-coniferous :', '', ''], ['3871', '4403.12.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3872', '4403.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, coniferous :', '', ''], ['', '4403.21', '- - Of pine (Pinus spp.), of which any\ncross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or\nmore :', '', ''], ['3873', '4403.21.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3874', '4403.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.22', '- - Of pine (Pinus spp.), other :', '', ''], ['3875', '4403.22.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3876', '4403.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.23', '- - Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea\nspp.), of which any cross-sectional\ndimension is 15 cm or more :', '', ''], ['3877', '4403.23.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3878', '4403.23.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.24', '- - Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea\nspp.), other :', '', ''], ['3879', '4403.24.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3880', '4403.24.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.25', '- - Other, of which any cross-sectional\ndimension is 15 cm or more :', '', ''], ['3881', '4403.25.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3882', '4403.25.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.26', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3883', '4403.26.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3884', '4403.26.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of tropical wood :', '', ''], ['', '4403.41', '- - Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti\nand Meranti Bakau :', '', ''], ['3885', '4403.41.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3886', '4403.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3887', '4403.49.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3888', '4403.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4403.91', '- - Of oak (Quercus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3889', '4403.91.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3890', '4403.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.93', '- - Of beech (Fagus spp.), of which any\ncross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or\nmore :', '', ''], ['3891', '4403.93.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3892', '4403.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.94', '- - Of beech (Fagus spp.), other :', '', ''], ['3893', '4403.94.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3894', '4403.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.95', '- - Of birch (Betula spp.), of which any\ncross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or\nmore :', '', ''], ['3895', '4403.95.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3896', '4403.95.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.96', '- - Of birch (Betula spp.), other :', '', ''], ['3897', '4403.96.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3898', '4403.96.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.97', '- - Of poplar and aspen (Populus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3899', '4403.97.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3900', '4403.97.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.98', '- - Of eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3901', '4403.98.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3902', '4403.98.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4403.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3903', '4403.99.10', '- - - Baulks, sawlogs and veneer logs', '0%', 'E0'], ['3904', '4403.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.04', 'Hoopwood; split poles; piles, pickets\nand stakes of wood, pointed but not\nsawn lengthwise; wooden sticks,\nroughly trimmed but not turned, bent\nor otherwise worked, suitable for the\nmanufacture of walking-sticks,\numbrellas, tool handles or the like;\nchipwood and the like.', '', ''], ['3905', '4404.10.00', '- Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4404.20', '- Non-coniferous :', '', ''], ['3906', '4404.20.10', '- - Chipwood', '0%', 'E0'], ['3907', '4404.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.05', 'Wood wool; wood flour.', '', ''], ['3908', '4405.00.10', '- Wood wool', '0%', 'E0'], ['3909', '4405.00.20', '- Wood flour', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.06', 'Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-\nties) of wood.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not impregnated :', '', ''], ['3910', '4406.11.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['3911', '4406.12.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3912', '4406.91.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['3913', '4406.92.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.07', 'Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise,\nsliced or peeled, whether or not planed,\nsanded or end-jointed, of a thickness\nexceeding 6 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Coniferous :', '', ''], ['3914', '4407.11.00', '- - Of pine (Pinus spp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3915', '4407.12.00', '- - Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea\nspp.)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3916', '4407.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of tropical wood :', '', ''], ['', '4407.21', '- - Mahogany (Swietenia spp.) :', '', ''], ['3917', '4407.21.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3918', '4407.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.22', '- - Virola, Imbuia and Balsa :', '', ''], ['3919', '4407.22.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3920', '4407.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.25', '- - Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti\nand Meranti Bakau :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Dark Red Meranti or Light Red\nMeranti :', '', ''], ['3921', '4407.25.11', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3922', '4407.25.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Meranti Bakau :', '', ''], ['3923', '4407.25.21', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3924', '4407.25.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.26', '- - White Lauan, White Meranti, White\nSeraya, Yellow Meranti and Alan :', '', ''], ['3925', '4407.26.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3926', '4407.26.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.27', '- - Sapelli :', '', ''], ['3927', '4407.27.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3928', '4407.27.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.28', '- - Iroko :', '', ''], ['3929', '4407.28.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3930', '4407.28.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Jelutong (Dyera spp.) :', '', ''], ['3931', '4407.29.11', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3932', '4407.29.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Kapur (Dryobalanops spp.) :', '', ''], ['3933', '4407.29.21', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3934', '4407.29.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Kempas (Koompassia spp.) :', '', ''], ['3935', '4407.29.31', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3936', '4407.29.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Keruing (Dipterocarpus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3937', '4407.29.41', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3938', '4407.29.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Ramin (Gonystylus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3939', '4407.29.51', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3940', '4407.29.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Teak (Tectona spp.) :', '', ''], ['3941', '4407.29.61', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3942', '4407.29.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Balau (Shorea spp.) :', '', ''], ['3943', '4407.29.71', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3944', '4407.29.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Mengkulang (Heritiera spp.) :', '', ''], ['3945', '4407.29.81', '- - - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3946', '4407.29.89', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['3947', '4407.29.91', '- - - - Jongkong (Dactylocladus spp.) and\nMerbau (Intsia spp.), planed, sanded or\nend-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3948', '4407.29.92', '- - - - Jongkong (Dactylocladus spp.) and\nMerbau (Intsia spp.), other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3949', '4407.29.94', '- - - - Albizia (Paraserianthes falcataria),\nplaned, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3950', '4407.29.95', '- - - - Albizia (Paraserianthes falcataria),\nother', '0%', 'E0'], ['3951', '4407.29.96', '- - - - Rubber (Hevea brasiliensis),\nplaned, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3952', '4407.29.97', '- - - - Rubber (Hevea Brasiliensis), other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3953', '4407.29.98', '- - - - Other, planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3954', '4407.29.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4407.91', '- - Of oak (Quercus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3955', '4407.91.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3956', '4407.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.92', '- - Of beech (Fagus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3957', '4407.92.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3958', '4407.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.93', '- - Of maple (Acer spp.) :', '', ''], ['3959', '4407.93.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3960', '4407.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.94', '- - Of cherry (Prunus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3961', '4407.94.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3962', '4407.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.95', '- - Of ash (Fraxinus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3963', '4407.95.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3964', '4407.95.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.96', '- - Of birch (Betula spp.) :', '', ''], ['3965', '4407.96.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3966', '4407.96.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.97', '- - Of poplar and aspen (Populus spp.) :', '', ''], ['3967', '4407.97.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3968', '4407.97.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4407.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3969', '4407.99.10', '- - - Planed, sanded or end-jointed', '0%', 'E0'], ['3970', '4407.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.08', 'Sheets for veneering (including those\nobtained by slicing laminated wood),\nfor plywood or for similar laminated\nwood and other wood, sawn lengthwise,\nsliced or peeled, whether or not planed,\nsanded, spliced or end-jointed, of a\nthickness not exceeding 6 mm.', '', ''], ['', '4408.10', '- Coniferous :', '', ''], ['3971', '4408.10.10', '- - Cedar wood pencil slats; Radiata\npinewood of a kind used for blockboard\nmanufacture', '0%', 'E0'], ['3972', '4408.10.30', '- - Face veneer sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3973', '4408.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of tropical wood :', '', ''], ['3974', '4408.31.00', '- - Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti\nand Meranti Bakau', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4408.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['3975', '4408.39.10', '- - - Jelutong wood pencil slats', '0%', 'E0'], ['3976', '4408.39.20', '- - - Face veneer sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3977', '4408.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4408.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3978', '4408.90.10', '- - Face veneer sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['3979', '4408.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.09', 'Wood (including strips and friezes for\nparquet flooring, not assembled)\ncontinuously shaped (tongued, grooved,\nrebated, chamfered, V-jointed, beaded,\nmoulded, rounded or the like) along\nany of its edges, ends or faces, whether\nor not planed, sanded or end-jointed.', '', ''], ['3980', '4409.10.00', '- Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Non-coniferous :', '', ''], ['3981', '4409.21.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['3982', '4409.22.00', '- - Of tropical wood', '0%', 'E0'], ['3983', '4409.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.10', 'Particle board, oriented strand board\n(OSB) and similar board (for example,\nwaferboard) of wood or other ligneous\nmaterials, whether or not agglomerated\nwith resins or other organic binding\nsubstances.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of wood :', '', ''], ['3984', '4410.11.00', '- - Particle board', '5%', 'SS'], ['3985', '4410.12.00', '- - Oriented strand board (OSB)', '0%', 'E0'], ['3986', '4410.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['3987', '4410.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '44.11', 'Fibreboard of wood or other ligneous\nmaterials, whether or not bonded with\nresins or other organic substances.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Medium density fibreboard (MDF) :', '', ''], ['3988', '4411.12.00', '- - Of a thickness not exceeding 5 mm', '5%', 'SS'], ['3989', '4411.13.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 5 mm but not\nexceeding 9 mm', '5%', 'SS'], ['3990', '4411.14.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 9 mm', '5%', 'SS'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3991', '4411.92.00', '- - Of a density exceeding 0.8 g/cm³', '5%', 'SS'], ['3992', '4411.93.00', '- - Of a density exceeding 0.5 g/cm³ but\nnot exceeding 0.8 g/cm³', '5%', 'SS'], ['3993', '4411.94.00', '- - Of a density not exceeding 0.5 g/cm³', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '44.12', 'Plywood, veneered panels and similar\nlaminated wood.', '', ''], ['3994', '4412.10.00', '- Of bamboo', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other plywood, consisting solely of\nsheets of wood (other than bamboo), each\nply not exceeding 6 mm thickness :', '', ''], ['3995', '4412.31.00', '- - With at least one outer ply of tropical\nwood', '10%', 'SS'], ['3996', '4412.33.00', '- - Other, with at least one outer ply of\nnon-coniferous wood of the species alder\n(Alnus spp.), ash (Fraxinus spp.), beech\n(Fagus spp.), birch (Betula spp.), cherry\n(Prunus spp.), chestnut (Castanea spp.),\nelm (Ulmus spp.), eucalyptus (Eucalyptus\nspp.), hickory (Carya spp.), horse\nchestnut (Aesculus spp.), lime (Tilia spp.),\nmaple (Acer spp.), oak (Quercus spp.),\nplane tree (Platanus spp.), poplar and\naspen (Populus spp.), robinia (Robinia\nspp.), tulipwood (Liriodendron spp.) or\nwalnut (Juglans spp.)', '10%', 'SS'], ['3997', '4412.34.00', '- - Other, with at least one outer ply of\nnon-coniferous wood not specified under\nsubheading 4412.33', '10%', 'SS'], ['3998', '4412.39.00', '- - Other, with both outer plies of\nconiferous wood', '10%', 'SS'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['3999', '4412.94.00', '- - Blockboard, laminboard and\nbattenboard', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '4412.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4000', '4412.99.10', '- - - With at least one side faced with\nplastics', '10%', 'SS'], ['4001', '4412.99.20', '- - - With at least one side faced with teak', '10%', 'SS'], ['4002', '4412.99.30', '- - - With at least one side faced with\nother tropical wood', '10%', 'SS'], ['4003', '4412.99.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'SS'], ['4004', '4413.00.00', 'Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips\nor profile shapes.', '5%', 'E0'], ['4005', '4414.00.00', 'Wooden frames for paintings,\nphotographs, mirrors or similar\nobjects.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.15', 'Packing cases, boxes, crates, drums and\nsimilar packings, of wood; cable-drums\nof wood; pallets, box pallets and other\nload boards, of wood; pallet collars of\nwood.', '', ''], ['4006', '4415.10.00', '- Cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar\npackings; cable-drums', '0%', 'E0'], ['4007', '4415.20.00', '- Pallets, box pallets and other load\nboards; pallet collars', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.16', 'Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other\ncoopers’ products and parts thereof, of\nwood, including staves.', '', ''], ['4008', '4416.00.10', '- Staves', '0%', 'E0'], ['4009', '4416.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.17', 'Tools, tool bodies, tool handles, broom\nor brush bodies and handles, of wood;\nboot or shoe lasts and trees, of wood.', '', ''], ['4010', '4417.00.10', '- Boot or shoe lasts', '0%', 'E0'], ['4011', '4417.00.20', '- Boot or shoe trees', '0%', 'E0'], ['4012', '4417.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.18', 'Builders’ joinery and carpentry of\nwood, including cellular wood panels,\nassembled flooring panels, shingles and\nshakes.', '', ''], ['4013', '4418.10.00', '- Windows, French-windows and their\nframes', '0%', 'E0'], ['4014', '4418.20.00', '- Doors and their frames and thresholds', '0%', 'E0'], ['4015', '4418.40.00', '- Shuttering for concrete constructional\nwork', '0%', 'E0'], ['4016', '4418.50.00', '- Shingles and shakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['4017', '4418.60.00', '- Posts and beams', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Assembled flooring panels :', '', ''], ['', '4418.73', '- - Of bamboo or with at least the top\nlayer (wear layer) of bamboo :', '', ''], ['4018', '4418.73.10', '- - - For mosaic floors', '0%', 'E0'], ['4019', '4418.73.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4020', '4418.74.00', '- - Other, for mosaic floors', '0%', 'E0'], ['4021', '4418.75.00', '- - Other, multilayer', '0%', 'E0'], ['4022', '4418.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4023', '4418.91.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4418.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4024', '4418.99.10', '- - - Cellular wood panels', '0%', 'E0'], ['4025', '4418.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.19', 'Tableware and kitchenware, of wood.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of bamboo :', '', ''], ['4026', '4419.11.00', '- - Bread boards, chopping boards and\nsimilar boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['4027', '4419.12.00', '- - Chopsticks', '0%', 'E0'], ['4028', '4419.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4029', '4419.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.20', 'Wood marquetry and inlaid wood;\ncaskets and cases for jewellery or\ncutlery, and similar articles, of wood;\nstatuettes and other ornaments, of\nwood; wooden articles of furniture not\nfalling in Chapter 94.', '', ''], ['4030', '4420.10.00', '- Statuettes and other ornaments, of wood', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4420.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4031', '4420.90.10', '- - Wooden articles of furniture not falling\nin Chapter 94', '0%', 'E0'], ['4032', '4420.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '44.21', 'Other articles of wood.', '', ''], ['4033', '4421.10.00', '- Clothes hangers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4421.91', '- - Of bamboo :', '', ''], ['4034', '4421.91.10', '- - - Spools, cops and bobbins, sewing\nthread reels and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['4035', '4421.91.20', '- - - Match splints', '0%', 'E0'], ['4036', '4421.91.30', '- - - Candy-sticks, ice-cream sticks and\nice-cream spoons', '0%', 'E0'], ['4037', '4421.91.40', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4038', '4421.91.50', '- - - Prayer beads', '0%', 'E0'], ['4039', '4421.91.60', '- - - Toothpicks', '0%', 'E0'], ['4040', '4421.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4421.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4041', '4421.99.10', '- - - Spools, cops and bobbins, sewing\nthread reels and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['4042', '4421.99.20', '- - - Match splints', '0%', 'E0'], ['4043', '4421.99.30', '- - - Wooden pegs or pins for footwear', '0%', 'E0'], ['4044', '4421.99.40', '- - - Candy-sticks, ice-cream sticks and\nice-cream spoons', '0%', 'E0'], ['4045', '4421.99.70', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4046', '4421.99.80', '- - - Toothpicks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4047', '4421.99.93', '- - - - Prayer beads', '0%', 'E0'], ['4048', '4421.99.94', '- - - - Other beads', '0%', 'E0'], ['4049', '4421.99.95', '- - - - Sticks for making joss sticks', '0%', 'E0'], ['4050', '4421.99.96', '- - - - Barecore', '10%', 'E0'], ['4051', '4421.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '45.01', 'Natural cork, raw or simply prepared;\nwaste cork; crushed, granulated or\nground cork.', '', ''], ['4052', '4501.10.00', '- Natural cork, raw or simply prepared', '0%', 'E0'], ['4053', '4501.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4054', '4502.00.00', 'Natural cork, debacked or roughly\nsquared, or in rectangular (including\nsquare) blocks, plates, sheets or strip\n(including sharp-edged blanks for\ncorks or stoppers).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '45.03', 'Articles of natural cork.', '', ''], ['4055', '4503.10.00', '- Corks and stoppers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4056', '4503.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '45.04', 'Agglomerated cork (with or without a\nbinding substance) and articles of\nagglomerated cork.', '', ''], ['4057', '4504.10.00', '- Blocks, plates, sheets and strip; tiles of\nany shape; solid cylinders, including discs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4058', '4504.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '46.01', 'Plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, whether or not assembled\ninto strips; plaiting materials, plaits\nand similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, bound together in parallel\nstrands or woven, in sheet form,\nwhether or not being finished articles\n(for example, mats, matting, screens).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Mats, matting and screens of vegetable\nmaterials :', '', ''], ['4059', '4601.21.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['4060', '4601.22.00', '- - Of rattan', '0%', 'E0'], ['4061', '4601.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4601.92', '- - Of bamboo :', '', ''], ['4062', '4601.92.10', '- - - Plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, whether or not assembled into\nstrips', '0%', 'E0'], ['4063', '4601.92.20', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4064', '4601.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4601.93', '- - Of rattan :', '', ''], ['4065', '4601.93.10', '- - - Plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, whether or not assembled into\nstrips', '0%', 'E0'], ['4066', '4601.93.20', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4067', '4601.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4601.94', '- - Of other vegetable materials :', '', ''], ['4068', '4601.94.10', '- - - Plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, whether or not assembled into\nstrips', '0%', 'E0'], ['4069', '4601.94.20', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4070', '4601.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4601.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4071', '4601.99.10', '- - - Mats and matting', '0%', 'E0'], ['4072', '4601.99.20', '- - - Plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, whether or not assembled into\nstrips', '0%', 'E0'], ['4073', '4601.99.30', '- - - Fans and handscreens, frames and\nhandles therefor, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['4074', '4601.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '46.02', 'Basketwork, wickerwork and other\narticles, made directly to shape from\nplaiting materials or made up from\ngoods of heading 46.01; articles of\nloofah.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of vegetable materials :', '', ''], ['', '4602.11', '- - Of bamboo :', '', ''], ['4075', '4602.11.10', '- - - Travelling bags and suitcases', '0%', 'E0'], ['4076', '4602.11.20', '- - - Envelopes for bottles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4077', '4602.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4602.12', '- - Of rattan :', '', ''], ['4078', '4602.12.10', '- - - Travelling bags and suitcases', '0%', 'E0'], ['4079', '4602.12.20', '- - - Envelopes for bottles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4080', '4602.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4602.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4081', '4602.19.10', '- - - Travelling bags and suitcases', '0%', 'E0'], ['4082', '4602.19.20', '- - - Envelopes for bottles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4083', '4602.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4602.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4084', '4602.90.10', '- - Travelling bags and suitcases', '0%', 'E0'], ['4085', '4602.90.20', '- - Envelopes for bottles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4086', '4602.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4087', '4701.00.00', 'Mechanical wood pulp.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4088', '4702.00.00', 'Chemical wood pulp, dissolving grades.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '47.03', 'Chemical wood pulp, soda or sulphate,\nother than dissolving grades.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4089', '4703.11.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['4090', '4703.19.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Semi-bleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['4091', '4703.21.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['4092', '4703.29.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '47.04', 'Chemical wood pulp, sulphite, other\nthan dissolving grades.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4093', '4704.11.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['4094', '4704.19.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Semi-bleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['4095', '4704.21.00', '- - Coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['4096', '4704.29.00', '- - Non-coniferous', '0%', 'E0'], ['4097', '4705.00.00', 'Wood pulp obtained by a combination\nof mechanical and chemical pulping\nprocesses.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '47.06', 'Pulps of fibres derived from recovered\n(waste and scrap) paper or paperboard\nor of other fibrous cellulosic material.', '', ''], ['4098', '4706.10.00', '- Cotton linters pulp', '0%', 'E0'], ['4099', '4706.20.00', '- Pulps of fibres derived from recovered\n(waste and scrap) paper or paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4100', '4706.30.00', '- Other, of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4101', '4706.91.00', '- - Mechanical', '0%', 'E0'], ['4102', '4706.92.00', '- - Chemical', '0%', 'E0'], ['4103', '4706.93.00', '- - Obtained by a combination of\nmechanical and chemical processes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '47.07', 'Recovered (waste and scrap) paper or\npaperboard.', '', ''], ['4104', '4707.10.00', '- Unbleached kraft paper or paperboard or\ncorrugated paper or paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4105', '4707.20.00', '- Other paper or paperboard made mainly\nof bleached chemical pulp, not coloured\nin the mass', '0%', 'E0'], ['4106', '4707.30.00', '- Paper or paperboard made mainly of\nmechanical pulp (for example,\nnewspapers, journals and similar printed\nmatter)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4107', '4707.90.00', '- Other, including unsorted waste and\nscrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.01', 'Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Weighing not more than 55 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4108', '4801.00.11', '- - In rolls, of a width exceeding 28 cm\nbut not exceeding 36 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4109', '4801.00.12', '- - In rolls, other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4110', '4801.00.13', '- - In sheets, square or rectangular, one\nside of which exceeds 28 cm but not\nexceeding 36 cm, and the other side\nexceeding 15 cm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4111', '4801.00.14', '- - In sheets, square or rectangular, one\nside of which exceeds 36 cm, and the\nother side exceeding 15 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Weighing more than 55 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4112', '4801.00.21', '- - In rolls, of a width exceeding 28 cm\nbut not exceeding 36 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4113', '4801.00.22', '- - In rolls, other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4114', '4801.00.23', '- - In sheets, square or rectangular, one\nside of which exceeds 28 cm but not\nexceeding 36 cm, and the other side\nexceeding 15 cm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4115', '4801.00.24', '- - In sheets, square or rectangular, one\nside of which exceeds 36 cm, and the\nother side exceeding 15 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.02', 'Uncoated paper and paperboard, of a\nkind used for writing, printing or other\ngraphic purposes, and non perforated\npunch-cards and punch tape paper, in\nrolls or rectangular (including square)\nsheets, of any size, other than paper of\nheading 48.01 or 48.03; hand-made\npaper and paperboard.', '', ''], ['4116', '4802.10.00', '- Hand-made paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.20', '- Paper and paperboard of a kind used as a\nbase for photo-sensitive, heat-sensitive or\nelectro-sensitive paper or paperboard :', '', ''], ['4117', '4802.20.10', '- - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4118', '4802.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.40', '- Wallpaper base :', '', ''], ['4119', '4802.40.10', '- - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4120', '4802.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other paper and paperboard, not\ncontaining fibres obtained by a\nmechanical or chemi-mechanical process\nor of which not more than 10 % by weight\nof the total fibre content consists of such\nfibres :', '', ''], ['', '4802.54', '- - Weighing less than 40 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Carbonising base paper, weighing\nless than 20 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4121', '4802.54.11', '- - - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4122', '4802.54.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other carbonising base paper :', '', ''], ['4123', '4802.54.21', '- - - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4124', '4802.54.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4125', '4802.54.30', '- - - Base paper of a kind used to\nmanufacture aluminium coated paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4126', '4802.54.40', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes, in rolls of not\nmore than 15 cm in width or in\nrectangular (including square) sheets of\nwhich no side exceeds 36 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4127', '4802.54.50', '- - - Multi-ply paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4128', '4802.54.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.55', '- - Weighing 40 g/m2 or more but not\nmore than 150 g/m2, in rolls :', '', ''], ['4129', '4802.55.20', '- - - Fancy paper and paperboard,\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks', '0%', 'E0'], ['4130', '4802.55.40', '- - - Base paper of a kind used to\nmanufacture aluminium coated paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4131', '4802.55.50', '- - - Base paper of a kind used to\nmanufacture release paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4132', '4802.55.61', '- - - - Of a width not exceeding 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4133', '4802.55.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4134', '4802.55.70', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4135', '4802.55.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.56', '- - Weighing 40 g/m2 or more but not\nmore than 150 g/m2, in sheets with one\nside not exceeding 435 mm and the other\nside not exceeding 297 mm in the\nunfolded state :', '', ''], ['4136', '4802.56.20', '- - - Fancy paper and paperboard\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Carbonising base paper :', '', ''], ['4137', '4802.56.31', '- - - - With no side exceeding 36 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4138', '4802.56.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4139', '4802.56.41', '- - - - Of a width not exceeding 36 cm in\nrectangular (including square) sheets and\nin the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4140', '4802.56.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4141', '4802.56.50', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4142', '4802.56.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.57', '- - Other, weighing 40 g/m2 or more but\nnot more than 150 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Carbonising base paper :', '', ''], ['4143', '4802.57.11', '- - - - With no side exceeding 36 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4144', '4802.57.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4145', '4802.57.21', '- - - - With no side exceeds 36 cm in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4146', '4802.57.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4147', '4802.57.30', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4148', '4802.57.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.58', '- - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fancy paper and paperboard,\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks :', '', ''], ['4149', '4802.58.21', '- - - - In rolls of a width of 15 cm or less\nor in rectangular (including square) sheets\nwith one side 36 cm or less and the other\nside 15 cm or less in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4150', '4802.58.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4151', '4802.58.31', '- - - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4152', '4802.58.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4153', '4802.58.40', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4154', '4802.58.91', '- - - - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but\nless than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4155', '4802.58.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other paper and paperboard, of which\nmore than 10 % by weight of the total\nfibre content consists of fibres obtained\nby a mechanical or chemi-mechanical\nprocess :', '', ''], ['', '4802.61', '- - In rolls :', '', ''], ['4156', '4802.61.30', '- - - Fancy paper and paperboard,\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks', '0%', 'E0'], ['4157', '4802.61.40', '- - - Base paper of a kind used to\nmanufacture aluminium coated paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4158', '4802.61.51', '- - - - Of a width not exceeding 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4159', '4802.61.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4160', '4802.61.60', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4161', '4802.61.91', '- - - - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but\nless than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4162', '4802.61.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.62', '- - In sheets with one side not exceeding\n435 mm and the other side not exceeding\n297 mm in the unfolded state :', '', ''], ['4163', '4802.62.10', '- - - Fancy paper and paperboard,\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks, in rectangular (including\nsquare) sheets with one side 36 cm or less\nand the other side 15 cm or less in the\nunfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4164', '4802.62.20', '- - - Other fancy paper and paperboard,\nincluding paper and paperboard with\nwatermarks, a granitized felt finish, a\nfibre finish, a vellum antique finish or a\nblend of specks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4165', '4802.62.31', '- - - - In rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4166', '4802.62.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4167', '4802.62.40', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4168', '4802.62.91', '- - - - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but\nless than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4169', '4802.62.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4802.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for writing, printing\nand other graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['4170', '4802.69.11', '- - - - In rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4171', '4802.69.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4172', '4802.69.20', '- - - Multi-ply paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4173', '4802.69.91', '- - - - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but\nless than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4174', '4802.69.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.03', 'Toilet or facial tissue stock, towel or\nnapkin stock and similar paper of a\nkind used for household or sanitary\npurposes, cellulose wadding and webs\nof cellulose fibres, whether or not\ncreped, crinkled, embossed, perforated,\nsurface-coloured, surface-decorated or\nprinted, in rolls or sheets.', '', ''], ['4175', '4803.00.30', '- Of cellulose wadding or of webs of\ncellulose fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4176', '4803.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.04', 'Uncoated kraft paper and paperboard,\nin rolls or sheets, other than that of\nheading 48.02 or 48.03.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Kraftliner :', '', ''], ['4177', '4804.11.00', '- - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4178', '4804.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Sack kraft paper :', '', ''], ['', '4804.21', '- - Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4179', '4804.21.10', '- - - Of a kind used for making cement\nbags', '0%', 'E0'], ['4180', '4804.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4181', '4804.29.10', '- - - Of a kind used for making cement\nbags', '0%', 'E0'], ['4182', '4804.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other kraft paper and paperboard\nweighing 150 g/m2 or less :', '', ''], ['', '4804.31', '- - Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4183', '4804.31.10', '- - - Electrical grade insulating kraft paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4184', '4804.31.30', '- - - Of a wet strength of 40 g to 60 g, of a\nkind used in the manufacture of plywood\nadhesive tape', '0%', 'E0'], ['4185', '4804.31.40', '- - - Sandpaper base paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4186', '4804.31.50', '- - - Of a kind used for making cement\nbags', '0%', 'E0'], ['4187', '4804.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4804.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4188', '4804.39.10', '- - - Of a wet strength of 40 g to 60 g, of a\nkind used in the manufacture of plywood\nadhesive tape', '0%', 'E0'], ['4189', '4804.39.20', '- - - Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nfor making food packaging', '0%', 'E0'], ['4190', '4804.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other kraft paper and paperboard\nweighing more than 150 g/m2 but less\nthan 225 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['', '4804.41', '- - Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4191', '4804.41.10', '- - - Electrical grade insulating kraft paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4192', '4804.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4804.42', '- - Bleached uniformly throughout the\nmass and of which more than 95 % by\nweight of the total fibre content consists\nof wood fibres obtained by a chemical\nprocess :', '', ''], ['4193', '4804.42.10', '- - - Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nfor making food packaging', '0%', 'E0'], ['4194', '4804.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4804.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4195', '4804.49.10', '- - - Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nfor making food packaging', '0%', 'E0'], ['4196', '4804.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other kraft paper and paperboard\nweighing 225 g/m2 or more :', '', ''], ['', '4804.51', '- - Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4197', '4804.51.10', '- - - Electrical grade insulating kraft paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4198', '4804.51.20', '- - - Pressboard weighing 600 g/m2 or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['4199', '4804.51.30', '- - - Of a wet strength of 40 g to 60 g, of a\nkind used in the manufacture of plywood\nadhesive tape', '0%', 'E0'], ['4200', '4804.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4804.52', '- - Bleached uniformly throughout the\nmass and of which more than 95 % by\nweight of the total fibre content consists\nof wood fibres obtained by a chemical\nprocess :', '', ''], ['4201', '4804.52.10', '- - - Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nfor making food packaging', '0%', 'E0'], ['4202', '4804.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4804.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4203', '4804.59.10', '- - - Paper and paperboard of a kind used\nfor making food packaging', '0%', 'E0'], ['4204', '4804.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.05', 'Other uncoated paper and paperboard,\nin rolls or sheets, not further worked or\nprocessed than as specified in Note 3 to\nthis Chapter.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fluting paper :', '', ''], ['4205', '4805.11.00', '- - Semi-chemical fluting paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4206', '4805.12.00', '- - Straw fluting paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4805.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4207', '4805.19.10', '- - - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but\nless than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4208', '4805.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Testliner (recycled liner board) :', '', ''], ['4209', '4805.24.00', '- - Weighing 150 g/m2 or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4805.25', '- - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4210', '4805.25.10', '- - - Weighing less than 225 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4211', '4805.25.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4805.30', '- Sulphite wrapping paper :', '', ''], ['4212', '4805.30.10', '- - Coloured paper of a kind used for\nwrapping wooden match box', '0%', 'E0'], ['4213', '4805.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4214', '4805.40.00', '- Filter paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4215', '4805.50.00', '- Felt paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4805.91', '- - Weighing 150 g/m2 or less :', '', ''], ['4216', '4805.91.10', '- - - Paper of a kind used as interleaf\nmaterial for the packing of flat glass\nproducts, with a resin content by weight\nof not more than 0.6 %', '0%', 'E0'], ['4217', '4805.91.20', '- - - Of a kind used to manufacture joss', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'paper', '', ''], ['4218', '4805.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4805.92', '- - Weighing more than 150 g/m2 but less\nthan 225 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4219', '4805.92.10', '- - - Multi-ply paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4220', '4805.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4805.93', '- - Weighing 225 g/m2 or more :', '', ''], ['4221', '4805.93.10', '- - - Multi-ply paper and paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4222', '4805.93.20', '- - - Blotting paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4223', '4805.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.06', 'Vegetable parchment, greaseproof\npapers, tracing papers and glassine and\nother glazed transparent or translucent\npapers, in rolls or sheets.', '', ''], ['4224', '4806.10.00', '- Vegetable parchment', '0%', 'E0'], ['4225', '4806.20.00', '- Greaseproof papers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4226', '4806.30.00', '- Tracing papers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4227', '4806.40.00', '- Glassine and other glazed transparent or\ntranslucent papers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4228', '4807.00.00', 'Composite paper and paperboard\n(made by sticking flat layers of paper\nor paperboard together with an\nadhesive), not surface-coated or\nimpregnated, whether or not internally\nreinforced, in rolls or sheets.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.08', 'Paper and paperboard, corrugated\n(with or without glued flat surface\nsheets), creped, crinkled, embossed or\nperforated, in rolls or sheets, other than\npaper of the kind described in heading\n48.03.', '', ''], ['4229', '4808.10.00', '- Corrugated paper and paperboard,\nwhether or not perforated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4230', '4808.40.00', '- Kraft paper, creped or crinkled, whether\nor not embossed or perforated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4808.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4231', '4808.90.20', '- - Creped or crinkled paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4232', '4808.90.30', '- - Embossed paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4233', '4808.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.09', 'Carbon paper, self-copy paper and\nother copying or transfer papers\n(including coated or impregnated paper\nfor duplicator stencils or offset plates),\nwhether or not printed, in rolls or\nsheets.', '', ''], ['4234', '4809.20.00', '- Self-copy paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4809.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4235', '4809.90.10', '- - Carbon paper and similar copying\npapers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4236', '4809.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.10', 'Paper and paperboard, coated on one\nor both sides with kaolin (China clay)\nor other inorganic substances, with or\nwithout a binder, and with no other\ncoating, whether or not\nsurface-coloured, surface-decorated or\nprinted, in rolls or rectangular\n(including square) sheets, of any size.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Paper and paperboard of a kind used for\nwriting, printing or other graphic\npurposes, not containing fibres obtained\nby a mechanical or chemi-mechanical\nprocess or of which not more than 10 %\nby weight of the total fibre content\nconsists of such fibres :', '', ''], ['', '4810.13', '- - In rolls :', '', ''], ['4237', '4810.13.10', '- - - Printed, of a kind used for self-\nrecording apparatus, of a width of 150\nmm or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4238', '4810.13.91', '- - - - Of a width of 150 mm or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['4239', '4810.13.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.14', '- - In sheets with one side not exceeding\n435 mm and the other side not exceeding\n297 mm in the unfolded state :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Printed, of a kind used for self-\nrecording apparatus, of which no side\nexceeds 360 mm :', '', ''], ['4240', '4810.14.11', '- - - - Electrocardiograph,\nultrasonography, spirometer, electro-\nencephalograph and fetal monitoring\npapers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4241', '4810.14.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4242', '4810.14.91', '- - - - Of which no side exceeds 360 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4243', '4810.14.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4244', '4810.19.10', '- - - Printed, of a kind used for self-\nrecording apparatus, of which no side\nexceeds 360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4245', '4810.19.91', '- - - - Of which no side exceeds 360 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4246', '4810.19.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Paper and paperboard of a kind used for\nwriting, printing or other graphic\npurposes, of which more than 10 % by\nweight of the total fibre content consists\nof fibres obtained by a mechanical or\nchemi-mechanical process :', '', ''], ['', '4810.22', '- - Light-weight coated paper :', '', ''], ['4247', '4810.22.10', '- - - Printed, of a kind used for self-\nrecording apparatus, in rolls of a width of\n150 mm or less, or in sheets of which no', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'side exceeds 360 mm in the unfolded state', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4248', '4810.22.91', '- - - - In rolls of a width of 150 mm or\nless, or in sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4249', '4810.22.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4250', '4810.29.10', '- - - Printed, of a kind used for self-\nrecording apparatus, in rolls of a width of\n150 mm or less, or in sheets of which no\nside exceeds 360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4251', '4810.29.91', '- - - - In rolls of a width of 150 mm or\nless, or in sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4252', '4810.29.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Kraft paper and paperboard, other than\nthat of a kind used for writing, printing or\nother graphic purposes :', '', ''], ['', '4810.31', '- - Bleached uniformly throughout the\nmass and of which more than 95 % by\nweight of the total fibre content consists\nof wood fibres obtained by a chemical\nprocess, and weighing 150 g/m2 or less :', '', ''], ['4253', '4810.31.30', '- - - In rolls of not more than 150 mm in\nwidth or sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4254', '4810.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.32', '- - Bleached uniformly throughout the\nmass and of which more than 95 % by\nweight of the total fibre content consists\nof wood fibres obtained by a chemical\nprocess, and weighing more than 150\ng/m2 :', '', ''], ['4255', '4810.32.30', '- - - In rolls of not more than 150 mm in\nwidth or sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4256', '4810.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4257', '4810.39.30', '- - - In rolls of not more than 150 mm in\nwidth or sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4258', '4810.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other paper and paperboard :', '', ''], ['', '4810.92', '- - Multi-ply :', '', ''], ['4259', '4810.92.40', '- - - In rolls of not more than 150 mm in\nwidth or sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4260', '4810.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4810.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4261', '4810.99.40', '- - - In rolls of not more than 150 mm in\nwidth or sheets of which no side exceeds\n360 mm in the unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4262', '4810.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.11', 'Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding\nand webs of cellulose fibres, coated,\nimpregnated, covered,\nsurface-coloured, surface-decorated or\nprinted, in rolls or rectangular\n(including square) sheets, of any size,\nother than goods of the kind described\nin heading 48.03, 48.09 or 48.10.', '', ''], ['', '4811.10', '- Tarred, bituminised or asphalted paper\nand paperboard :', '', ''], ['4263', '4811.10.20', '- - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4264', '4811.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Gummed or adhesive paper and\npaperboard :', '', ''], ['', '4811.41', '- - Self-adhesive :', '', ''], ['4265', '4811.41.20', '- - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4266', '4811.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4811.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4267', '4811.49.20', '- - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['4268', '4811.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Paper and paperboard coated,\nimpregnated or covered with plastics\n(excluding adhesives) :', '', ''], ['', '4811.51', '- - Bleached, weighing more than 150\ng/m2 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state :', '', ''], ['4269', '4811.51.31', '- - - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4270', '4811.51.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4271', '4811.51.91', '- - - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4272', '4811.51.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4811.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4273', '4811.59.20', '- - - Paper and paperboard covered on\nboth faces with transparent films of\nplastics and with a lining of aluminium\nfoil, for the packaging of liquid food\nproducts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state :', '', ''], ['4274', '4811.59.41', '- - - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4275', '4811.59.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4276', '4811.59.91', '- - - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4277', '4811.59.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4811.60', '- Paper and paperboard, coated,\nimpregnated or covered with wax,\nparaffin wax, stearin, oil or glycerol :', '', ''], ['4278', '4811.60.20', '- - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4279', '4811.60.91', '- - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4280', '4811.60.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4811.90', '- Other paper, paperboard, cellulose\nwadding and webs of cellulose fibres :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - In rolls of not more than 15 cm in\nwidth or in rectangular (including square)\nsheets of which no side exceeds 36 cm in\nthe unfolded state :', '', ''], ['4281', '4811.90.41', '- - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4282', '4811.90.42', '- - - Marbled paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4283', '4811.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4284', '4811.90.91', '- - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4285', '4811.90.92', '- - - Marbled paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4286', '4811.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4287', '4812.00.00', 'Filter blocks, slabs and plates, of paper\npulp.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.13', 'Cigarette paper, whether or not cut to\nsize or in the form of booklets or tubes.', '', ''], ['4288', '4813.10.00', '- In the form of booklets or tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['4289', '4813.20.00', '- In rolls of a width not exceeding 5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4813.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4290', '4813.90.10', '- - In rolls of a width exceeding 5 cm,\ncoated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4291', '4813.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.14', 'Wallpaper and similar wall coverings;\nwindow transparencies of paper.', '', ''], ['', '4814.20', '- Wallpaper and similar wall coverings,\nconsisting of paper coated or covered, on\nthe face side, with a grained, embossed,\ncoloured, design-printed or otherwise\ndecorated layer of plastics :', '', ''], ['4292', '4814.20.10', '- - Of a width not exceeding 60 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4293', '4814.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4294', '4814.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.16', 'Carbon paper, self-copy paper and\nother copying or transfer papers (other\nthan those of heading 48.09), duplicator\nstencils and offset plates, of paper,\nwhether or not put up in boxes.', '', ''], ['', '4816.20', '- Self-copy paper :', '', ''], ['4295', '4816.20.10', '- - In rolls of a width exceeding 15 cm but\nnot exceeding 36 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4296', '4816.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4816.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4297', '4816.90.10', '- - Carbon paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4298', '4816.90.20', '- - Other copying paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4299', '4816.90.30', '- - Offset plates', '0%', 'E0'], ['4300', '4816.90.40', '- - Heat transfer paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4301', '4816.90.50', '- - Other, in rolls of a width exceeding 15\ncm but not exceeding 36 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4302', '4816.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.17', 'Envelopes, letter cards, plain postcards\nand correspondence cards, of paper or\npaperboard; boxes, pouches, wallets\nand writing compendiums, of paper or\npaperboard, containing an assortment\nof paper stationery.', '', ''], ['4303', '4817.10.00', '- Envelopes', '0%', 'E0'], ['4304', '4817.20.00', '- Letter cards, plain postcards and\ncorrespondence cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['4305', '4817.30.00', '- Boxes, pouches, wallets and writing\ncompendiums, of paper or paperboard,\ncontaining an assortment of paper\nstationery', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.18', 'Toilet paper and similar paper, cellulose\nwadding or webs of cellulose fibres, of a\nkind used for household or sanitary\npurposes, in rolls of a width not\nexceeding 36 cm, or cut to size or\nshape; handkerchiefs, cleansing tissues,\ntowels, tablecloths, serviettes, bed\nsheets and similar household, sanitary\nor hospital articles, articles of apparel\nand clothing accessories, of paper pulp,\npaper, cellulose wadding or webs of\ncellulose fibres.', '', ''], ['4306', '4818.10.00', '- Toilet paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4307', '4818.20.00', '- Handkerchiefs, cleansing or facial\ntissues and towels', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4818.30', '- Tablecloths and serviettes :', '', ''], ['4308', '4818.30.10', '- - Tablecloths', '0%', 'E0'], ['4309', '4818.30.20', '- - Serviettes', '0%', 'E0'], ['4310', '4818.50.00', '- Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['4311', '4818.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.19', 'Cartons, boxes, cases, bags and other\npacking containers, of paper,\npaperboard, cellulose wadding or webs\nof cellulose fibres; box files, letter trays,\nand similar articles, of paper or\npaperboard of a kind used in offices,\nshops or the like.', '', ''], ['4312', '4819.10.00', '- Cartons, boxes and cases, of corrugated\npaper or paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4313', '4819.20.00', '- Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of\nnon-corrugated paper or paperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['4314', '4819.30.00', '- Sacks and bags, having a base of a width\nof 40 cm or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['4315', '4819.40.00', '- Other sacks and bags, including cones', '0%', 'E0'], ['4316', '4819.50.00', '- Other packing containers, including\nrecord sleeves', '0%', 'E0'], ['4317', '4819.60.00', '- Box files, letter trays, storage boxes and\nsimilar articles, of a kind used in offices,\nshops or the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.20', 'Registers, account books, note books,\norder books, receipt books, letter pads,\nmemorandum pads, diaries and similar\narticles, exercise books, blotting-pads,\nbinders (loose-leaf or other), folders,\nfile covers, manifold business forms,\ninterleaved carbon sets and other\narticles of stationery, of paper or\npaperboard; albums for samples or for\ncollections and book covers, of paper or\npaperboard.', '', ''], ['4318', '4820.10.00', '- Registers, account books, note books,\norder books, receipt books, letter pads,\nmemorandum pads, diaries and similar\narticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4319', '4820.20.00', '- Exercise books', '0%', 'E0'], ['4320', '4820.30.00', '- Binders (other than book covers),\nfolders and file covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['4321', '4820.40.00', '- Manifold business forms and interleaved\ncarbon sets', '0%', 'E0'], ['4322', '4820.50.00', '- Albums for samples or for collections', '0%', 'E0'], ['4323', '4820.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.21', 'Paper or paperboard labels of all kinds,\nwhether or not printed.', '', ''], ['', '4821.10', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['4324', '4821.10.10', '- - Labels of a kind used for jewellery,\nincluding objects of personal adornment\nor articles of personal use normally\ncarried in the pocket, in the handbag or on\nthe person', '0%', 'E0'], ['4325', '4821.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4821.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4326', '4821.90.10', '- - Labels of a kind used for jewellery,\nincluding objects of personal adornment\nor articles of personal use normally\ncarried in the pocket, in the handbag or on\nthe person', '0%', 'E0'], ['4327', '4821.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.22', 'Bobbins, spools, cops and similar\nsupports of paper pulp, paper or\npaperboard (whether or not perforated\nor hardened).', '', ''], ['', '4822.10', '- Of a kind used for winding textile yarn :', '', ''], ['4328', '4822.10.10', '- - Cones', '0%', 'E0'], ['4329', '4822.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4822.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4330', '4822.90.10', '- - Cones', '0%', 'E0'], ['4331', '4822.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '48.23', 'Other paper, paperboard, cellulose\nwadding and webs of cellulose fibres,\ncut to size or shape; other articles of\npaper pulp, paper, paperboard,\ncellulose wadding or webs of cellulose\nfibres.', '', ''], ['', '4823.20', '- Filter paper and paperboard :', '', ''], ['4332', '4823.20.10', '- - In strips, rolls or sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['4333', '4823.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4823.40', '- Rolls, sheets and dials, printed for self-\nrecording apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For electro-medical apparatus :', '', ''], ['4334', '4823.40.21', '- - - Cardiograph recording paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4335', '4823.40.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4336', '4823.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Trays, dishes, plates, cups and the like,\nof paper or paperboard :', '', ''], ['4337', '4823.61.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['4338', '4823.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4339', '4823.70.00', '- Moulded or pressed articles of paper\npulp', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4823.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4340', '4823.90.10', '- - Cocooning frames for silk-worms', '0%', 'E0'], ['4341', '4823.90.20', '- - Display cards of a kind used for\njewellery, including objects of personal\nadornment or articles of personal use\nnormally carried in the pocket, in the\nhandbag or on the person', '0%', 'E0'], ['4342', '4823.90.30', '- - Die-cut polyethylene coated\npaperboard of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of paper cups', '0%', 'E0'], ['4343', '4823.90.40', '- - Paper tube sets of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of fireworks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Kraft paper, in rolls of a width of 209\nmm, of a kind used as wrapper for\ndynamite sticks :', '', ''], ['4344', '4823.90.51', '- - - Weighing 150 g/m2 or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['4345', '4823.90.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4346', '4823.90.60', '- - Punched jacquard cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['4347', '4823.90.70', '- - Fans and handscreens', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4348', '4823.90.91', '- - - Silicone paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4349', '4823.90.92', '- - - Joss paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4350', '4823.90.94', '- - - Cellulose wadding and webs of\ncellulose fibers, coloured or marbled\nthroughout the mass', '0%', 'E0'], ['4351', '4823.90.95', '- - - Floor coverings', '0%', 'E0'], ['4352', '4823.90.96', '- - - Other, cut to shape other than\nrectangular or square', '0%', 'E0'], ['4353', '4823.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '49.01', 'Printed books, brochures, leaflets and\nsimilar printed matter, whether or not\nin single sheets.', '', ''], ['4354', '4901.10.00', '- In single sheets, whether or not folded', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4355', '4901.91.00', '- - Dictionaries and encyclopaedias, and\nserial instalments thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4901.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4356', '4901.99.10', '- - - Educational, technical, scientific,\nhistorical or cultural books', '0%', 'E0'], ['4357', '4901.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '49.02', 'Newspapers, journals and periodicals,\nwhether or not illustrated or containing\nadvertising material.', '', ''], ['4358', '4902.10.00', '- Appearing at least four times a week', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4902.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4359', '4902.90.10', '- - Educational, technical, scientific,\nhistorical or cultural journals and\nperiodicals', '0%', 'E0'], ['4360', '4902.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4361', '4903.00.00', 'Children’s picture, drawing or\ncolouring books.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4362', '4904.00.00', 'Music, printed or in manuscript,\nwhether or not bound or illustrated.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '49.05', 'Maps and hydrographic or similar\ncharts of all kinds, including atlases,\nwall maps, topographical plans and\nglobes, printed.', '', ''], ['4363', '4905.10.00', '- Globes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4364', '4905.91.00', '- - In book form', '0%', 'E0'], ['4365', '4905.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4366', '4906.00.00', 'Plans and drawings for architectural,\nengineering, industrial, commercial,\ntopographical or similar purposes,\nbeing originals drawn by hand; hand-\nwritten texts; photographic', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'reproductions on sensitised paper and\ncarbon copies of the foregoing.', '', ''], ['', '49.07', 'Unused postage, revenue or similar\nstamps of current or new issue in the\ncountry in which they have, or will\nhave, a recognised face value;\nstamp-impressed paper; banknotes;\ncheque forms; stock, share or bond\ncertificates and similar documents of\ntitle.', '', ''], ['4367', '4907.00.10', '- Banknotes, being legal tender', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Unused postage, revenue or similar\nstamps :', '', ''], ['4368', '4907.00.21', '- - Postage stamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['4369', '4907.00.29', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4370', '4907.00.40', '- Stock, share or bond certificates and\nsimilar documents of title; cheque forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['4371', '4907.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '49.08', 'Transfers (decalcomanias).', '', ''], ['4372', '4908.10.00', '- Transfers (decalcomanias), vitrifiable', '0%', 'E0'], ['4373', '4908.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4374', '4909.00.00', 'Printed or illustrated postcards;\nprinted cards bearing personal\ngreetings, messages or announcements,\nwhether or not illustrated, with or\nwithout envelopes or trimmings.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4375', '4910.00.00', 'Calendars of any kind, printed,\nincluding calendar blocks.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '49.11', 'Other printed matter, including printed\npictures and photographs.', '', ''], ['', '4911.10', '- Trade advertising material, commercial\ncatalogues and the like :', '', ''], ['4376', '4911.10.10', '- - Catalogues listing only educational,\ntechnical, scientific, historical or cultural\nbooks and publications', '0%', 'E0'], ['4377', '4911.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '4911.91', '- - Pictures, designs and photographs :', '', ''], ['4378', '4911.91.10', '- - - Designs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, of a kind to be mounted for\ninstructional purposes :', '', ''], ['4379', '4911.91.21', '- - - - Anatomical and botanical', '0%', 'E0'], ['4380', '4911.91.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4381', '4911.91.31', '- - - - Anatomical and botanical', '0%', 'E0'], ['4382', '4911.91.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '4911.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4383', '4911.99.10', '- - - Printed cards for jewellery or for\nsmall objects of personal adornment or\narticles of personal use normally carried\nin the pocket, handbag or on the person', '0%', 'E0'], ['4384', '4911.99.20', '- - - Printed labels for explosives', '0%', 'E0'], ['4385', '4911.99.30', '- - - Educational, technical, scientific,\nhistorical or cultural material printed on a\nset of cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['4386', '4911.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4387', '5001.00.00', 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4388', '5002.00.00', 'Raw silk (not thrown).', '0%', 'E0'], ['4389', '5003.00.00', 'Silk waste (including cocoons\nunsuitable for reeling, yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', '0%', 'E0'], ['4390', '5004.00.00', 'Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from\nsilk waste) not put up for retail sale.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4391', '5005.00.00', 'Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up\nfor retail sale.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4392', '5006.00.00', 'Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk\nwaste, put up for retail sale; silk-worm\ngut.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '50.07', 'Woven fabrics of silk or of silk waste.', '', ''], ['', '5007.10', '- Fabrics of noil silk :', '', ''], ['4393', '5007.10.20', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4394', '5007.10.30', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['4395', '5007.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5007.20', '- Other fabrics, containing 85 % or more\nby weight of silk or of silk waste other\nthan noil silk :', '', ''], ['4396', '5007.20.20', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4397', '5007.20.30', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['4398', '5007.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5007.90', '- Other fabrics :', '', ''], ['4399', '5007.90.20', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4400', '5007.90.30', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['4401', '5007.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.01', 'Wool, not carded or combed.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Greasy, including fleece-washed wool :', '', ''], ['4402', '5101.11.00', '- - Shorn wool', '0%', 'E0'], ['4403', '5101.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Degreased, not carbonised :', '', ''], ['4404', '5101.21.00', '- - Shorn wool', '0%', 'E0'], ['4405', '5101.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4406', '5101.30.00', '- Carbonised', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.02', 'Fine or coarse animal hair, not carded\nor combed.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4407', '5102.11.00', '- - Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0%', 'E0'], ['4408', '5102.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4409', '5102.20.00', '- Coarse animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.03', 'Waste of wool or of fine or coarse\nanimal hair, including yarn waste but', '', ''], ['', '', 'excluding garnetted stock.', '', ''], ['4410', '5103.10.00', '- Noils of wool or of fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4411', '5103.20.00', '- Other waste of wool or of fine animal\nhair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4412', '5103.30.00', '- Waste of coarse animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4413', '5104.00.00', 'Garnetted stock of wool or of fine or\ncoarse animal hair.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.05', 'Wool and fine or coarse animal hair,\ncarded or combed (including combed\nwool in fragments).', '', ''], ['4414', '5105.10.00', '- Carded wool', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Wool tops and other combed wool :', '', ''], ['4415', '5105.21.00', '- - Combed wool in fragments', '0%', 'E0'], ['4416', '5105.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fine animal hair, carded or combed :', '', ''], ['4417', '5105.31.00', '- - Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0%', 'E0'], ['4418', '5105.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4419', '5105.40.00', '- Coarse animal hair, carded or combed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.06', 'Yarn of carded wool, not put up for\nretail sale.', '', ''], ['4420', '5106.10.00', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nwool', '5%', 'E0'], ['4421', '5106.20.00', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nwool', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '51.07', 'Yarn of combed wool, not put up for\nretail sale.', '', ''], ['4422', '5107.10.00', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nwool', '5%', 'E0'], ['4423', '5107.20.00', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nwool', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '51.08', 'Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or\ncombed), not put up for retail sale.', '', ''], ['4424', '5108.10.00', '- Carded', '5%', 'E0'], ['4425', '5108.20.00', '- Combed', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '51.09', 'Yarn of wool or of fine animal hair, put\nup for retail sale.', '', ''], ['4426', '5109.10.00', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nwool or of fine animal hair', '5%', 'E0'], ['4427', '5109.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['4428', '5110.00.00', 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of\nhorsehair (including gimped horsehair\nyarn), whether or not put up for retail\nsale.', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '51.11', 'Woven fabrics of carded wool or of\ncarded fine animal hair.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nwool or of fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4429', '5111.11.00', '- - Of a weight not exceeding 300 g/m2', '10%', 'E0'], ['4430', '5111.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4431', '5111.20.00', '- Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['4432', '5111.30.00', '- Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4433', '5111.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '51.12', 'Woven fabrics of combed wool or of\ncombed fine animal hair.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nwool or of fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4434', '5112.11.00', '- - Of a weight not exceeding 200 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5112.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4435', '5112.19.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4436', '5112.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4437', '5112.20.00', '- Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['4438', '5112.30.00', '- Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4439', '5112.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4440', '5113.00.00', 'Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair or\nof horsehair.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4441', '5201.00.00', 'Cotton, not carded or combed.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.02', 'Cotton waste (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', '', ''], ['4442', '5202.10.00', '- Yarn waste (including thread waste)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4443', '5202.91.00', '- - Garnetted stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['4444', '5202.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4445', '5203.00.00', 'Cotton, carded or combed.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.04', 'Cotton sewing thread, whether or not\nput up for retail sale.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not put up for retail sale :', '', ''], ['', '5204.11', '- - Containing 85 % or more by weight of\ncotton :', '', ''], ['4446', '5204.11.10', '- - - Unbleached', '5%', 'E0'], ['4447', '5204.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['4448', '5204.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['4449', '5204.20.00', '- Put up for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.05', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing\nthread), containing 85 % or more by\nweight of cotton, not put up for retail\nsale.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Single yarn, of uncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4450', '5205.11.00', '- - Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not\nexceeding 14 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4451', '5205.12.00', '- - Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but\nnot less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding\n14 metric number but not exceeding 43\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4452', '5205.13.00', '- - Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but\nnot less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding\n43 metric number but not exceeding 52\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4453', '5205.14.00', '- - Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but\nnot less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52\nmetric number but not exceeding 80\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4454', '5205.15.00', '- - Measuring less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Single yarn, of combed fibres :', '', ''], ['4455', '5205.21.00', '- - Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not\nexceeding 14 metric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4456', '5205.22.00', '- - Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but\nnot less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding\n14 metric number but not exceeding 43\nmetric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4457', '5205.23.00', '- - Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but\nnot less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding\n43 metric number but not exceeding 52\nmetric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4458', '5205.24.00', '- - Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but\nnot less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52\nmetric number but not exceeding 80\nmetric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4459', '5205.26.00', '- - Measuring less than 125 decitex but\nnot less than 106.38 decitex (exceeding\n80 metric number but not exceeding 94\nmetric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4460', '5205.27.00', '- - Measuring less than 106.38 decitex but\nnot less than 83.33 decitex (exceeding 94\nmetric number but not exceeding 120\nmetric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4461', '5205.28.00', '- - Measuring less than 83.33 decitex\n(exceeding 120 metric number)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of\nuncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4462', '5205.31.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn 714.29\ndecitex or more (not exceeding 14 metric\nnumber per single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4463', '5205.32.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n714.29 decitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex (exceeding 14 metric number but\nnot exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4464', '5205.33.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31\ndecitex (exceeding 43 metric number but\nnot exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4465', '5205.34.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n192.31 decitex but not less than 125\ndecitex (exceeding 52 metric number but\nnot exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4466', '5205.35.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 80 metric number\nper single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of\ncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4467', '5205.41.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn 714.29\ndecitex or more (not exceeding 14 metric\nnumber per single yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4468', '5205.42.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n714.29 decitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex (exceeding 14 metric number but\nnot exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4469', '5205.43.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31\ndecitex (exceeding 43 metric number but\nnot exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4470', '5205.44.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n192.31 decitex but not less than 125\ndecitex (exceeding 52 metric number but\nnot exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4471', '5205.46.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n125 decitex but not less than 106.38\ndecitex (exceeding 80 metric number but\nnot exceeding 94 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4472', '5205.47.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n106.38 decitex but not less than 83.33\ndecitex (exceeding 94 metric number but\nnot exceeding 120 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['4473', '5205.48.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n83.33 decitex (exceeding 120 metric\nnumber per single yarn)', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '52.06', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing\nthread), containing less than 85 % by\nweight of cotton, not put up for retail\nsale.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Single yarn, of uncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4474', '5206.11.00', '- - Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not\nexceeding 14 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4475', '5206.12.00', '- - Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but\nnot less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding\n14 metric number but not exceeding 43\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4476', '5206.13.00', '- - Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but\nnot less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding\n43 metric number but not exceeding 52\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4477', '5206.14.00', '- - Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but\nnot less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52\nmetric number but not exceeding 80\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4478', '5206.15.00', '- - Measuring less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Single yarn, of combed fibres :', '', ''], ['4479', '5206.21.00', '- - Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not\nexceeding 14 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4480', '5206.22.00', '- - Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but\nnot less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding\n14 metric number but not exceeding 43\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4481', '5206.23.00', '- - Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but\nnot less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding\n43 metric number but not exceeding 52\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4482', '5206.24.00', '- - Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but\nnot less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52\nmetric number but not exceeding 80\nmetric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4483', '5206.25.00', '- - Measuring less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of\nuncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4484', '5206.31.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn 714.29\ndecitex or more (not exceeding 14 metric\nnumber per single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4485', '5206.32.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n714.29 decitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex (exceeding 14 metric number but\nnot exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4486', '5206.33.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31\ndecitex (exceeding 43 metric number but\nnot exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4487', '5206.34.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n192.31 decitex but not less than 125\ndecitex (exceeding 52 metric number but\nnot exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4488', '5206.35.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 80 metric number\nper single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of\ncombed fibres :', '', ''], ['4489', '5206.41.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn 714.29\ndecitex or more (not exceeding 14 metric\nnumber per single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4490', '5206.42.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n714.29 decitex but not less than 232.56\ndecitex (exceeding 14 metric number but\nnot exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4491', '5206.43.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n232.56 decitex but not less than 192.31\ndecitex (exceeding 43 metric number but\nnot exceeding 52 metric number per', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'single yarn)', '', ''], ['4492', '5206.44.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n192.31 decitex but not less than 125\ndecitex (exceeding 52 metric number but\nnot exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4493', '5206.45.00', '- - Measuring per single yarn less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 80 metric number\nper single yarn)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.07', 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread)\nput up for retail sale.', '', ''], ['4494', '5207.10.00', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\ncotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4495', '5207.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.08', 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing\n85 % or more by weight of cotton,\nweighing not more than 200 g/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4496', '5208.11.00', '- - Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4497', '5208.12.00', '- - Plain weave, weighing more than 100\ng/m2', '10%', 'EX'], ['4498', '5208.13.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4499', '5208.19.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Bleached :', '', ''], ['4500', '5208.21.00', '- - Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4501', '5208.22.00', '- - Plain weave, weighing more than 100\ng/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4502', '5208.23.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4503', '5208.29.00', '- - Other fabrics', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['', '5208.31', '- - Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4504', '5208.31.10', '- - - Voile', '0%', 'E0'], ['4505', '5208.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4506', '5208.32.00', '- - Plain weave, weighing more than 100\ng/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4507', '5208.33.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4508', '5208.39.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['', '5208.41', '- - Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4509', '5208.41.10', '- - - Ikat fabric', '0%', 'E0'], ['4510', '5208.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5208.42', '- - Plain weave, weighing more than 100\ng/m2 :', '', ''], ['4511', '5208.42.10', '- - - Ikat fabric', '0%', 'E0'], ['4512', '5208.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4513', '5208.43.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4514', '5208.49.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['', '5208.51', '- - Plain weave, weighing not more than\n100 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4515', '5208.51.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4516', '5208.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5208.52', '- - Plain weave, weighing more than 100\ng/m2 :', '', ''], ['4517', '5208.52.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4518', '5208.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5208.59', '- - Other fabrics :', '', ''], ['4519', '5208.59.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4520', '5208.59.20', '- - - Other, 3-thread or 4-thread twill,\nincluding cross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4521', '5208.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.09', 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing\n85 % or more by weight of cotton,\nweighing more than 200 g/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['', '5209.11', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4522', '5209.11.10', '- - - Duck and canvas', '0%', 'E0'], ['4523', '5209.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4524', '5209.12.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4525', '5209.19.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Bleached :', '', ''], ['4526', '5209.21.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4527', '5209.22.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4528', '5209.29.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['4529', '5209.31.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4530', '5209.32.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4531', '5209.39.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['4532', '5209.41.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4533', '5209.42.00', '- - Denim', '0%', 'E0'], ['4534', '5209.43.00', '- - Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread\ntwill, including cross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4535', '5209.49.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['', '5209.51', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4536', '5209.51.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4537', '5209.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5209.52', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill :', '', ''], ['4538', '5209.52.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4539', '5209.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5209.59', '- - Other fabrics :', '', ''], ['4540', '5209.59.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4541', '5209.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.10', 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less\nthan 85 % by weight of cotton, mixed\nmainly or solely with man-made fibres,\nweighing not more than 200 g/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4542', '5210.11.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4543', '5210.19.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Bleached :', '', ''], ['4544', '5210.21.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4545', '5210.29.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['4546', '5210.31.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4547', '5210.32.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4548', '5210.39.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['', '5210.41', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4549', '5210.41.10', '- - - Ikat fabric', '0%', 'E0'], ['4550', '5210.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4551', '5210.49.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['', '5210.51', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4552', '5210.51.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4553', '5210.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5210.59', '- - Other fabrics :', '', ''], ['4554', '5210.59.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4555', '5210.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.11', 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less\nthan 85 % by weight of cotton, mixed\nmainly or solely with man-made fibres,\nweighing more than 200 g/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4556', '5211.11.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4557', '5211.12.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4558', '5211.19.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['4559', '5211.20.00', '- Bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['4560', '5211.31.00', '- - Plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4561', '5211.32.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4562', '5211.39.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['', '5211.41', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4563', '5211.41.10', '- - - Ikat fabric', '0%', 'E0'], ['4564', '5211.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4565', '5211.42.00', '- - Denim', '0%', 'E0'], ['4566', '5211.43.00', '- - Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread\ntwill, including cross twill', '0%', 'E0'], ['4567', '5211.49.00', '- - Other fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['', '5211.51', '- - Plain weave :', '', ''], ['4568', '5211.51.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4569', '5211.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5211.52', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill :', '', ''], ['4570', '5211.52.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4571', '5211.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5211.59', '- - Other fabrics :', '', ''], ['4572', '5211.59.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4573', '5211.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '52.12', 'Other woven fabrics of cotton.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Weighing not more than 200 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4574', '5212.11.00', '- - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4575', '5212.12.00', '- - Bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4576', '5212.13.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4577', '5212.14.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5212.15', '- - Printed :', '', ''], ['4578', '5212.15.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4579', '5212.15.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Weighing more than 200 g/m2 :', '', ''], ['4580', '5212.21.00', '- - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4581', '5212.22.00', '- - Bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4582', '5212.23.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4583', '5212.24.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5212.25', '- - Printed :', '', ''], ['4584', '5212.25.10', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['4585', '5212.25.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.01', 'Flax, raw or processed but not spun;\nflax tow and waste (including yarn\nwaste and garnetted stock).', '', ''], ['4586', '5301.10.00', '- Flax, raw or retted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Flax, broken, scutched, hackled or\notherwise processed, but not spun :', '', ''], ['4587', '5301.21.00', '- - Broken or scutched', '0%', 'E0'], ['4588', '5301.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4589', '5301.30.00', '- Flax tow or waste', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.02', 'True hemp (Cannabis sativa L.), raw or\nprocessed but not spun; tow and waste\nof true hemp (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', '', ''], ['4590', '5302.10.00', '- True hemp, raw or retted', '0%', 'E0'], ['4591', '5302.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.03', 'Jute and other textile bast fibres\n(excluding flax, true hemp and ramie),\nraw or processed but not spun; tow and\nwaste of these fibres (including yarn\nwaste and garnetted stock).', '', ''], ['4592', '5303.10.00', '- Jute and other textile bast fibres, raw or\nretted', '0%', 'E0'], ['4593', '5303.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.05', 'Coconut, abaca (Manila hemp or Musa\ntextilis Nee), ramie and other vegetable\ntextile fibres, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded, raw or processed but not\nspun; tow, noils and waste of these\nfibres (including yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock).', '', ''], ['4594', '5305.00.10', '- Sisal and other textile fibres of the genus\nAgave; tow and waste of these fibres\n(including yarn waste and garnetted\nstock)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Coconut fibres(coir) and abaca fibres :', '', ''], ['4595', '5305.00.21', '- - Coconut fibres, raw', '0%', 'E0'], ['4596', '5305.00.22', '- - Other coconut fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4597', '5305.00.23', '- - Abaca fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4598', '5305.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.06', 'Flax yarn.', '', ''], ['4599', '5306.10.00', '- Single', '0%', 'E0'], ['4600', '5306.20.00', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.07', 'Yarn of jute or of other textile bast\nfibres of heading 53.03.', '', ''], ['4601', '5307.10.00', '- Single', '0%', 'E0'], ['4602', '5307.20.00', '- Multiple (folded) or cabled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.08', 'Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres;\npaper yarn.', '', ''], ['4603', '5308.10.00', '- Coir yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4604', '5308.20.00', '- True hemp yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5308.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4605', '5308.90.10', '- - Paper yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4606', '5308.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.09', 'Woven fabrics of flax.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nflax :', '', ''], ['4607', '5309.11.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4608', '5309.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nflax :', '', ''], ['4609', '5309.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4610', '5309.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.10', 'Woven fabrics of jute or of other textile\nbast fibres of heading 53.03.', '', ''], ['', '5310.10', '- Unbleached :', '', ''], ['4611', '5310.10.10', '- - Plain', '0%', 'E0'], ['4612', '5310.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4613', '5310.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '53.11', 'Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile\nfibres; woven fabrics of paper yarn.', '', ''], ['4614', '5311.00.10', '- Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['4615', '5311.00.20', '- Abaca Burlap', '0%', 'E0'], ['4616', '5311.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.01', 'Sewing thread of man-made filaments,\nwhether or not put up for retail sale.', '', ''], ['', '5401.10', '- Of synthetic filaments :', '', ''], ['4617', '5401.10.10', '- - Put up for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['4618', '5401.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5401.20', '- Of artificial filaments :', '', ''], ['4619', '5401.20.10', '- - Put up for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['4620', '5401.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.02', 'Synthetic filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), not put up for retail\nsale, including synthetic monofilament\nof less than 67 decitex.', '', ''], ['', '', '- High tenacity yarn of nylon or other\npolyamides, whether or not textured :', '', ''], ['4621', '5402.11.00', '- - Of aramids', '0%', 'E0'], ['4622', '5402.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4623', '5402.20.00', '- High tenacity yarn of polyesters,\nwhether or not textured', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Textured yarn :', '', ''], ['4624', '5402.31.00', '- - Of nylon or other polyamides,\nmeasuring per single yarn not more than\n50 tex', '0%', 'E0'], ['4625', '5402.32.00', '- - Of nylon or other polyamides,\nmeasuring per single yarn more than 50\ntex', '0%', 'E0'], ['4626', '5402.33.00', '- - Of polyesters', '5%', 'E15'], ['4627', '5402.34.00', '- - Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4628', '5402.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, single, untwisted or with a\ntwist not exceeding 50 turns per metre :', '', ''], ['', '5402.44', '- - Elastomeric :', '', ''], ['4629', '5402.44.10', '- - - Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4630', '5402.44.20', '- - - Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4631', '5402.44.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4632', '5402.45.00', '- - Other, of nylon or other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['4633', '5402.46.00', '- - Other, of polyesters, partially oriented', '0%', 'E0'], ['4634', '5402.47.00', '- - Other, of polyesters', '5%', 'E15'], ['4635', '5402.48.00', '- - Other, of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4636', '5402.49.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, single, with a twist\nexceeding 50 turns per metre :', '', ''], ['4637', '5402.51.00', '- - Of nylon or other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['4638', '5402.52.00', '- - Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4639', '5402.53.00', '- - Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4640', '5402.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, multiple (folded) or cabled :', '', ''], ['4641', '5402.61.00', '- - Of nylon or other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['4642', '5402.62.00', '- - Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4643', '5402.63.00', '- - Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4644', '5402.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.03', 'Artificial filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), not put up for retail\nsale, including artificial monofilament\nof less than 67 decitex.', '', ''], ['4645', '5403.10.00', '- High tenacity yarn of viscose rayon', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, single :', '', ''], ['', '5403.31', '- - Of viscose rayon, untwisted or with a\ntwist not exceeding 120 turns per metre :', '', ''], ['4646', '5403.31.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4647', '5403.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5403.32', '- - Of viscose rayon, with a twist\nexceeding 120 turns per metre :', '', ''], ['4648', '5403.32.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4649', '5403.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5403.33', '- - Of cellulose acetate :', '', ''], ['4650', '5403.33.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4651', '5403.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5403.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4652', '5403.39.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4653', '5403.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, multiple (folded) or cabled :', '', ''], ['', '5403.41', '- - Of viscose rayon :', '', ''], ['4654', '5403.41.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4655', '5403.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5403.42', '- - Of cellulose acetate :', '', ''], ['4656', '5403.42.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4657', '5403.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5403.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4658', '5403.49.10', '- - - Textured yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4659', '5403.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.04', 'Synthetic monofilament of 67 decitex or\nmore and of which no cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 1 mm; strip and the\nlike (for example, artificial straw) of\nsynthetic textile materials of an\napparent width not exceeding 5 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Monofilament :', '', ''], ['4660', '5404.11.00', '- - Elastomeric', '0%', 'E0'], ['4661', '5404.12.00', '- - Other, of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4662', '5404.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4663', '5404.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4664', '5405.00.00', 'Artificial monofilament of 67 decitex or\nmore and of which no cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 1 mm; strip and the\nlike (for example, artificial straw) of\nartificial textile materials of an\napparent width not exceeding 5 mm.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4665', '5406.00.00', 'Man-made filament yarn (other than\nsewing thread), put up for retail sale.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.07', 'Woven fabrics of synthetic filament\nyarn, including woven fabrics obtained\nfrom materials of heading 54.04.', '', ''], ['', '5407.10', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high\ntenacity yarn of nylon or other\npolyamides or of polyesters :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Tyre fabrics; conveyor duck :', '', ''], ['4666', '5407.10.21', '- - - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4667', '5407.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4668', '5407.10.91', '- - - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4669', '5407.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4670', '5407.20.00', '- Woven fabrics obtained from strip or the\nlike', '0%', 'E0'], ['4671', '5407.30.00', '- Fabrics specified in Note 9 to Section XI', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or\nmore by weight of filaments of nylon or\nother polyamides :', '', ''], ['', '5407.41', '- - Unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['4672', '5407.41.10', '- - - Woven nylon mesh fabrics of\nuntwisted filament yarn suitable for use as\nreinforcing material for tarpaulins', '0%', 'E0'], ['4673', '5407.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4674', '5407.42.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4675', '5407.43.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4676', '5407.44.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or\nmore by weight of textured polyester\nfilaments :', '', ''], ['4677', '5407.51.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4678', '5407.52.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4679', '5407.53.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4680', '5407.54.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or\nmore by weight of polyester filaments :', '', ''], ['', '5407.61', '- - Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nnon-textured polyester filaments :', '', ''], ['4681', '5407.61.10', '- - - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4682', '5407.61.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5407.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4683', '5407.69.10', '- - - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4684', '5407.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or\nmore by weight of synthetic filaments :', '', ''], ['4685', '5407.71.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4686', '5407.72.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4687', '5407.73.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4688', '5407.74.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing less\nthan 85 % by weight of synthetic\nfilaments, mixed mainly or solely with\ncotton :', '', ''], ['4689', '5407.81.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4690', '5407.82.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4691', '5407.83.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4692', '5407.84.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics :', '', ''], ['4693', '5407.91.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4694', '5407.92.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4695', '5407.93.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4696', '5407.94.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '54.08', 'Woven fabrics of artificial filament\nyarn, including woven fabrics obtained\nfrom materials of heading 54.05.', '', ''], ['', '5408.10', '- Woven fabrics obtained from high\ntenacity yarn of viscose rayon :', '', ''], ['4697', '5408.10.10', '- - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4698', '5408.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or\nmore by weight of artificial filament or\nstrip or the like :', '', ''], ['4699', '5408.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4700', '5408.22.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4701', '5408.23.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4702', '5408.24.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics :', '', ''], ['4703', '5408.31.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4704', '5408.32.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4705', '5408.33.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4706', '5408.34.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.01', 'Synthetic filament tow.', '', ''], ['4707', '5501.10.00', '- Of nylon or other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['4708', '5501.20.00', '- Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4709', '5501.30.00', '- Acrylic or modacrylic', '0%', 'E0'], ['4710', '5501.40.00', '- Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4711', '5501.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.02', 'Artificial filament tow.', '', ''], ['4712', '5502.10.00', '- Of cellulose acetate', '0%', 'E0'], ['4713', '5502.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.03', 'Synthetic staple fibres, not carded,\ncombed or otherwise processed for\nspinning.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of nylon or other polyamides :', '', ''], ['4714', '5503.11.00', '- - Of aramids', '0%', 'E0'], ['4715', '5503.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4716', '5503.20.00', '- Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4717', '5503.30.00', '- Acrylic or modacrylic', '0%', 'E0'], ['4718', '5503.40.00', '- Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5503.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4719', '5503.90.10', '- - Of polyvinyl alcohol', '0%', 'E0'], ['4720', '5503.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.04', 'Artificial staple fibres, not carded,\ncombed or otherwise processed for\nspinning.', '', ''], ['4721', '5504.10.00', '- Of viscose rayon', '0%', 'E0'], ['4722', '5504.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.05', 'Waste (including noils, yarn waste and\ngarnetted stock) of man-made fibres.', '', ''], ['4723', '5505.10.00', '- Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4724', '5505.20.00', '- Of artificial fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.06', 'Synthetic staple fibres, carded, combed\nor otherwise processed for spinning.', '', ''], ['4725', '5506.10.00', '- Of nylon or other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['4726', '5506.20.00', '- Of polyesters', '0%', 'E0'], ['4727', '5506.30.00', '- Acrylic or modacrylic', '0%', 'E0'], ['4728', '5506.40.00', '- Of polypropylene', '0%', 'E0'], ['4729', '5506.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4730', '5507.00.00', 'Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed\nor otherwise processed for spinning.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.08', 'Sewing thread of man-made staple\nfibres, whether or not put up for retail\nsale.', '', ''], ['', '5508.10', '- Of synthetic staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4731', '5508.10.10', '- - Put up for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['4732', '5508.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5508.20', '- Of artificial staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4733', '5508.20.10', '- - Put up for retail sale', '0%', 'E0'], ['4734', '5508.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.09', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of\nsynthetic staple fibres, not put up for\nretail sale.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nstaple fibres of nylon or other\npolyamides :', '', ''], ['4735', '5509.11.00', '- - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4736', '5509.12.00', '- - Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\npolyester staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4737', '5509.21.00', '- - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4738', '5509.22.00', '- - Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nacrylic or modacrylic staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4739', '5509.31.00', '- - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4740', '5509.32.00', '- - Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of synthetic staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4741', '5509.41.00', '- - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4742', '5509.42.00', '- - Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, of polyester staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4743', '5509.51.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with artificial\nstaple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5509.52', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4744', '5509.52.10', '- - - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4745', '5509.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4746', '5509.53.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4747', '5509.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn, of acrylic or modacrylic\nstaple fibres :', '', ''], ['4748', '5509.61.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4749', '5509.62.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4750', '5509.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other yarn :', '', ''], ['4751', '5509.91.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4752', '5509.92.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4753', '5509.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.10', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of\nartificial staple fibres, not put up for\nretail sale.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nartificial staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4754', '5510.11.00', '- - Single yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4755', '5510.12.00', '- - Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4756', '5510.20.00', '- Other yarn, mixed mainly or solely with\nwool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4757', '5510.30.00', '- Other yarn, mixed mainly or solely with\ncotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4758', '5510.90.00', '- Other yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.11', 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of\nman-made staple fibres, put up for\nretail sale.', '', ''], ['', '5511.10', '- Of synthetic staple fibres, containing\n85 % or more by weight of such fibres :', '', ''], ['4759', '5511.10.10', '- - Knitting yarn, crochet thread and\nembroidery thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['4760', '5511.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5511.20', '- Of synthetic staple fibres, containing\nless than 85 % by weight of such fibres :', '', ''], ['4761', '5511.20.10', '- - Knitting yarn, crochet thread and\nembroidery thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['4762', '5511.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4763', '5511.30.00', '- Of artificial staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.12', 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining 85 % or more by weight of', '', ''], ['', '', 'synthetic staple fibres.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\npolyester staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4764', '5512.11.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4765', '5512.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nacrylic or modacrylic staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4766', '5512.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4767', '5512.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4768', '5512.91.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4769', '5512.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.13', 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining less than 85 % by weight of\nsuch fibres, mixed mainly or solely with\ncotton, of a weight not exceeding 170\ng/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['4770', '5513.11.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4771', '5513.12.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4772', '5513.13.00', '- - Other woven fabrics of polyester staple\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4773', '5513.19.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['4774', '5513.21.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4775', '5513.23.00', '- - Other woven fabrics of polyester staple\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4776', '5513.29.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['4777', '5513.31.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4778', '5513.39.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['4779', '5513.41.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4780', '5513.49.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.14', 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining less than 85 % by weight of\nsuch fibres, mixed mainly or solely with\ncotton, of a weight exceeding 170 g/m2.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['4781', '5514.11.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4782', '5514.12.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4783', '5514.19.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dyed :', '', ''], ['4784', '5514.21.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4785', '5514.22.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4786', '5514.23.00', '- - Other woven fabrics of polyester staple\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4787', '5514.29.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['4788', '5514.30.00', '- Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Printed :', '', ''], ['4789', '5514.41.00', '- - Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', '0%', 'E0'], ['4790', '5514.42.00', '- - 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill, of polyester staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4791', '5514.43.00', '- - Other woven fabrics of polyester staple\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4792', '5514.49.00', '- - Other woven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.15', 'Other woven fabrics of synthetic staple\nfibres.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of polyester staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4793', '5515.11.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with viscose\nrayon staple fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4794', '5515.12.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['4795', '5515.13.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4796', '5515.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of acrylic or modacrylic staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4797', '5515.21.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['4798', '5515.22.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4799', '5515.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics :', '', ''], ['4800', '5515.91.00', '- - Mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5515.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4801', '5515.99.10', '- - - Mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4802', '5515.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '55.16', 'Woven fabrics of artificial staple fibres.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing 85 % or more by weight of\nartificial staple fibres :', '', ''], ['4803', '5516.11.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4804', '5516.12.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4805', '5516.13.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4806', '5516.14.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nartificial staple fibres, mixed mainly or\nsolely with man-made filaments :', '', ''], ['4807', '5516.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4808', '5516.22.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4809', '5516.23.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4810', '5516.24.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nartificial staple fibres, mixed mainly or\nsolely with wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4811', '5516.31.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4812', '5516.32.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4813', '5516.33.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4814', '5516.34.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Containing less than 85 % by weight of\nartificial staple fibres, mixed mainly or\nsolely with cotton :', '', ''], ['4815', '5516.41.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4816', '5516.42.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4817', '5516.43.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4818', '5516.44.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4819', '5516.91.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4820', '5516.92.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['4821', '5516.93.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['4822', '5516.94.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.01', 'Wadding of textile materials and\narticles thereof; textile fibres, not\nexceeding 5 mm in length (flock), textile\ndust and mill neps.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Wadding of textile materials and articles\nthereof :', '', ''], ['4823', '5601.21.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5601.22', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['4824', '5601.22.10', '- - - Wrapped cigarette tow', '0%', 'E0'], ['4825', '5601.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4826', '5601.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5601.30', '- Textile flock and dust and mill neps :', '', ''], ['4827', '5601.30.10', '- - Polyamide fibre flock', '0%', 'E0'], ['4828', '5601.30.20', '- - Polypropylene fibre flock', '0%', 'E0'], ['4829', '5601.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.02', 'Felt, whether or not impregnated,\ncoated, covered or laminated.', '', ''], ['4830', '5602.10.00', '- Needleloom felt and stitch-bonded fibre\nfabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other felt, not impregnated, coated,\ncovered or laminated :', '', ''], ['4831', '5602.21.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4832', '5602.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['4833', '5602.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.03', 'Nonwovens, whether or not\nimpregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of man-made filaments :', '', ''], ['4834', '5603.11.00', '- - Weighing not more than 25 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4835', '5603.12.00', '- - Weighing more than 25 g/m2 but not\nmore than 70 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4836', '5603.13.00', '- - Weighing more than 70 g/m2 but not\nmore than 150 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4837', '5603.14.00', '- - Weighing more than 150 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4838', '5603.91.00', '- - Weighing not more than 25 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4839', '5603.92.00', '- - Weighing more than 25 g/m2 but not\nmore than 70 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4840', '5603.93.00', '- - Weighing more than 70 g/m2 but not\nmore than 150 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4841', '5603.94.00', '- - Weighing more than 150 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.04', 'Rubber thread and cord, textile\ncovered; textile yarn, and strip and the\nlike of heading 54.04 or 54.05,\nimpregnated, coated, covered or\nsheathed with rubber or plastics.', '', ''], ['4842', '5604.10.00', '- Rubber thread and cord, textile covered', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5604.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4843', '5604.90.10', '- - Imitation catgut, of silk yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4844', '5604.90.20', '- - Rubber impregnated textile thread yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['4845', '5604.90.30', '- - High tenacity yarn of polyesters, of\nnylon or other polyamides or of viscose\nrayon', '0%', 'E0'], ['4846', '5604.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4847', '5605.00.00', 'Metallised yarn, whether or not\ngimped, being textile yarn, or strip or\nthe like of heading 54.04 or 54.05,\ncombined with metal in the form of\nthread, strip or powder or covered with\nmetal.', '0%', 'E0'], ['4848', '5606.00.00', 'Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, gimped (other\nthan those of heading 56.05 and gimped\nhorsehair yarn); chenille yarn\n(including flock chenille yarn); loop\nwale-yarn.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.07', 'Twine, cordage, ropes and cables,\nwhether or not plaited or braided and\nwhether or not impregnated, coated,\ncovered or sheathed with rubber or\nplastics.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of sisal or other textile fibres of the\ngenus Agave :', '', ''], ['4849', '5607.21.00', '- - Binder or baler twine', '0%', 'E0'], ['4850', '5607.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of polyethylene or polypropylene :', '', ''], ['4851', '5607.41.00', '- - Binder or baler twine', '0%', 'E0'], ['4852', '5607.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5607.50', '- Of other synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['4853', '5607.50.10', '- - V-belt cord of man-made fibres treated\nwith resorcinol formaldehyde; polyamide\nand polytetrafluoro-ethylene yarns\nmeasuring more than 10,000 decitex, of a\nkind used for sealing pumps, valves and\nsimilar articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['4854', '5607.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5607.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4855', '5607.90.10', '- - Of artificial fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of abaca (Manila hemp or Musa\ntextilis Nee) or other hard (leaf) fibres :', '', ''], ['4856', '5607.90.21', '- - - Of Abaca (Manila hemp or Musa\ntextilis Nee)', '0%', 'E0'], ['4857', '5607.90.22', '- - - Of other hard (leaf) fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4858', '5607.90.30', '- - Of jute or other textile bast fibres of\nheading 53.03', '0%', 'E0'], ['4859', '5607.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '56.08', 'Knotted netting of twine, cordage or\nrope; made up fishing nets and other\nmade up nets, of textile materials.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of man-made textile materials :', '', ''], ['4860', '5608.11.00', '- - Made up fishing nets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5608.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4861', '5608.19.20', '- - - Net bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['4862', '5608.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5608.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4863', '5608.90.10', '- - Net bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['4864', '5608.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4865', '5609.00.00', 'Articles of yarn, strip or the like of\nheading 54.04 or 54.05, twine, cordage,\nrope or cables, not elsewhere specified\nor included.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '57.01', 'Carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, knotted, whether or not\nmade up.', '', ''], ['', '5701.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4866', '5701.10.10', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4867', '5701.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5701.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4868', '5701.90.11', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4869', '5701.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4870', '5701.90.20', '- - Of jute fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4871', '5701.90.91', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4872', '5701.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '57.02', 'Carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, woven, not tufted or flocked,\nwhether or not made up, including\n“Kelem”, “Schumacks”, “Karamanie”\nand similar hand-woven rugs.', '', ''], ['4873', '5702.10.00', '- “Kelem”, “Schumacks”, “Karamanie”\nand similar hand-woven rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4874', '5702.20.00', '- Floor coverings of coconut fibres (coir)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of pile construction, not made\nup :', '', ''], ['4875', '5702.31.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4876', '5702.32.00', '- - Of man-made textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.39', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['4877', '5702.39.10', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4878', '5702.39.20', '- - - Of jute fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4879', '5702.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of pile construction, made up :', '', ''], ['', '5702.41', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4880', '5702.41.10', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4881', '5702.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.42', '- - Of man-made textile materials :', '', ''], ['4882', '5702.42.10', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4883', '5702.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.49', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4884', '5702.49.11', '- - - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4885', '5702.49.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4886', '5702.49.20', '- - - Of jute fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4887', '5702.49.91', '- - - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4888', '5702.49.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.50', '- Other, not of pile construction, not made\nup :', '', ''], ['4889', '5702.50.10', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4890', '5702.50.20', '- - Of jute fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4891', '5702.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, not of pile construction, made\nup :', '', ''], ['', '5702.91', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4892', '5702.91.10', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4893', '5702.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.92', '- - Of man-made textile materials :', '', ''], ['4894', '5702.92.10', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4895', '5702.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5702.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4896', '5702.99.11', '- - - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4897', '5702.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4898', '5702.99.20', '- - - Of jute fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4899', '5702.99.91', '- - - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4900', '5702.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '57.03', 'Carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, tufted, whether or not made\nup.', '', ''], ['', '5703.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4901', '5703.10.10', '- - Floor mats of a kind used for motor\nvehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4902', '5703.10.20', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4903', '5703.10.30', '- - Flooring carpets of a kind used for\nmotor vehicles of headings 87.02, 87.03\nor 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4904', '5703.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5703.20', '- Of nylon or other polyamides :', '', ''], ['4905', '5703.20.10', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4906', '5703.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5703.30', '- Of other man-made textile materials :', '', ''], ['4907', '5703.30.10', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4908', '5703.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5703.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4909', '5703.90.11', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4910', '5703.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of jute fibres :', '', ''], ['4911', '5703.90.21', '- - - Floor mats of a kind used for motor\nvehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4912', '5703.90.22', '- - - Flooring carpets of a kind used for\nmotor vehicles of headings 87.02, 87.03\nor 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4913', '5703.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4914', '5703.90.91', '- - - Floor mats of a kind used for motor\nvehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4915', '5703.90.92', '- - - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4916', '5703.90.93', '- - - Flooring carpets of a kind used for\nmotor vehicles of headings 87.02, 87.03\nor 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4917', '5703.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '57.04', 'Carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, of felt, not tufted or flocked,\nwhether or not made up.', '', ''], ['4918', '5704.10.00', '- Tiles, having a maximum surface area of\n0.3 m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4919', '5704.20.00', '- Tiles, having a maximum surface area\nexceeding 0.3 m2 but not exceeding 1 m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['4920', '5704.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '57.05', 'Other carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings, whether or not made up.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4921', '5705.00.11', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4922', '5705.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of jute fibres :', '', ''], ['4923', '5705.00.21', '- - Non-woven floor coverings, of a kind\nused for motor vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4924', '5705.00.29', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4925', '5705.00.91', '- - Prayer rugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['4926', '5705.00.92', '- - Non-woven floor coverings, of a kind\nused for motor vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['4927', '5705.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.01', 'Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics,\nother than fabrics of heading 58.02 or\n58.06.', '', ''], ['', '5801.10', '- Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['4928', '5801.10.10', '- - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4929', '5801.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['', '5801.21', '- - Uncut weft pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4930', '5801.21.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4931', '5801.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.22', '- - Cut corduroy :', '', ''], ['4932', '5801.22.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4933', '5801.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.23', '- - Other weft pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4934', '5801.23.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4935', '5801.23.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.26', '- - Chenille fabrics :', '', ''], ['4936', '5801.26.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4937', '5801.26.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.27', '- - Warp pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4938', '5801.27.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4939', '5801.27.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['', '5801.31', '- - Uncut weft pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4940', '5801.31.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4941', '5801.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.32', '- - Cut corduroy :', '', ''], ['4942', '5801.32.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4943', '5801.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.33', '- - Other weft pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4944', '5801.33.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4945', '5801.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.36', '- - Chenille fabrics :', '', ''], ['4946', '5801.36.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4947', '5801.36.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.37', '- - Warp pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4948', '5801.37.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4949', '5801.37.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5801.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of silk :', '', ''], ['4950', '5801.90.11', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4951', '5801.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4952', '5801.90.91', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'laminated', '', ''], ['4953', '5801.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.02', 'Terry towelling and similar woven\nterry fabrics, other than narrow fabrics\nof heading 58.06; tufted textile fabrics,\nother than products of heading 57.03.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Terry towelling and similar woven terry\nfabrics, of cotton :', '', ''], ['4954', '5802.11.00', '- - Unbleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['4955', '5802.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5802.20', '- Terry towelling and similar woven terry\nfabrics, of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['4956', '5802.20.10', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4957', '5802.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5802.30', '- Tufted textile fabrics :', '', ''], ['4958', '5802.30.10', '- - Impregnated, coated or covered', '0%', 'E0'], ['4959', '5802.30.20', '- - Woven, of cotton or of man-made\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4960', '5802.30.30', '- - Woven, of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['4961', '5802.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.03', 'Gauze, other than narrow fabrics of\nheading 58.06.', '', ''], ['4962', '5803.00.10', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4963', '5803.00.20', '- Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['4964', '5803.00.30', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['4965', '5803.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.04', 'Tulles and other net fabrics, not\nincluding woven, knitted or crocheted\nfabrics; lace in the piece, in strips or in\nmotifs, other than fabrics of headings\n60.02 to 60.06.', '', ''], ['', '5804.10', '- Tulles and other net fabrics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of silk :', '', ''], ['4966', '5804.10.11', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4967', '5804.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4968', '5804.10.21', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4969', '5804.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['4970', '5804.10.91', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4971', '5804.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mechanically made lace :', '', ''], ['', '5804.21', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['4972', '5804.21.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4973', '5804.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5804.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['4974', '5804.29.10', '- - - Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated', '0%', 'E0'], ['4975', '5804.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4976', '5804.30.00', '- Hand-made lace', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.05', 'Hand-woven tapestries of the type\nGobelins, Flanders, Aubusson,\nBeauvais and the like, and needle-\nworked tapestries (for example, petit\npoint, cross stitch), whether or not\nmade up.', '', ''], ['4977', '5805.00.10', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4978', '5805.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.06', 'Narrow woven fabrics, other than\ngoods of heading 58.07; narrow fabrics\nconsisting of warp without weft\nassembled by means of an adhesive\n(bolducs).', '', ''], ['', '5806.10', '- Woven pile fabrics (including terry\ntowelling and similar terry fabrics) and\nchenille fabrics :', '', ''], ['4979', '5806.10.10', '- - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['4980', '5806.10.20', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['4981', '5806.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5806.20', '- Other woven fabrics, containing by\nweight 5 % or more of elastomeric yarn or\nrubber thread :', '', ''], ['4982', '5806.20.10', '- - Sports tape of a kind used to wrap\nsports equipment grips', '0%', 'E0'], ['4983', '5806.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics :', '', ''], ['', '5806.31', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['4984', '5806.31.10', '- - - Narrow woven fabrics suitable for the\nmanufacture of inked ribbons for\ntypewriters or similar machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['4985', '5806.31.20', '- - - Backing of a kind used for electrical\ninsulating paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4986', '5806.31.30', '- - - Ribbons of a kind used for making\nslide fasteners and of a width not\nexceeding 12 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4987', '5806.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5806.32', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['4988', '5806.32.10', '- - - Narrow woven fabrics suitable for the\nmanufacture of inked ribbons for\ntypewriters or similar machines; safety\nseat belt fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['4989', '5806.32.40', '- - - Backing of a kind used for electrical\ninsulating paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4990', '5806.32.50', '- - - Ribbons of a kind used for making\nslide fasteners and of a width not\nexceeding 12 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4991', '5806.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5806.39', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['4992', '5806.39.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['4993', '5806.39.91', '- - - - Backing of a kind used for electrical\ninsulating paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['4994', '5806.39.92', '- - - - Narrow woven fabrics suitable for\nthe manufacture of inked ribbons for\ntypewriters or similar machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['4995', '5806.39.93', '- - - - Ribbons of a kind used for making\nslide fastener and of a width not\nexceeding 12 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['4996', '5806.39.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['4997', '5806.40.00', '- Fabrics consisting of warp without weft\nassembled by means of an adhesive\n(bolducs)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.07', 'Labels, badges and similar articles of\ntextile materials, in the piece, in strips\nor cut to shape or size, not\nembroidered.', '', ''], ['4998', '5807.10.00', '- Woven', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5807.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['4999', '5807.90.10', '- - Of nonwoven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5000', '5807.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.08', 'Braids in the piece; ornamental\ntrimmings in the piece, without\nembroidery, other than knitted or\ncrocheted; tassels, pompons and similar\narticles.', '', ''], ['', '5808.10', '- Braids in the piece :', '', ''], ['5001', '5808.10.10', '- - Combined with rubber thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5002', '5808.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5808.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5003', '5808.90.10', '- - Combined with rubber thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5004', '5808.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5005', '5809.00.00', 'Woven fabrics of metal thread and\nwoven fabrics of metallised yarn of\nheading 56.05, of a kind used in\napparel, as furnishing fabrics or for\nsimilar purposes, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.10', 'Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in\nmotifs.', '', ''], ['5006', '5810.10.00', '- Embroidery without visible ground', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other embroidery :', '', ''], ['5007', '5810.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5008', '5810.92.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5009', '5810.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '58.11', 'Quilted textile products in the piece,\ncomposed of one or more layers of\ntextile materials assembled with\npadding by stitching or otherwise,\nother than embroidery of heading\n58.10.', '', ''], ['5010', '5811.00.10', '- Of wool or fine or coarse animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5011', '5811.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.01', 'Textile fabrics coated with gum or\namylaceous substances, of a kind used\nfor the outer covers of books or the\nlike; tracing cloth; prepared painting\ncanvas; buckram and similar stiffened\ntextile fabrics of a kind used for hat\nfoundations.', '', ''], ['5012', '5901.10.00', '- Textile fabrics coated with gum or\namylaceous substances, of a kind used for\nthe outer covers of books or the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5901.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5013', '5901.90.10', '- - Tracing cloth', '0%', 'E0'], ['5014', '5901.90.20', '- - Prepared painting canvas', '0%', 'E0'], ['5015', '5901.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.02', 'Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn\nof nylon or other polyamides,\npolyesters or viscose rayon.', '', ''], ['', '5902.10', '- Of nylon or other polyamides :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Chafer fabric, rubberised :', '', ''], ['5016', '5902.10.11', '- - - Of nylon-6 yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['5017', '5902.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5018', '5902.10.91', '- - - Of nylon-6 yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['5019', '5902.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5902.20', '- Of polyesters :', '', ''], ['5020', '5902.20.20', '- - Chafer fabric, rubberised', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5021', '5902.20.91', '- - - Containing cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5022', '5902.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5902.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5023', '5902.90.10', '- - Chafer fabric, rubberised', '0%', 'E0'], ['5024', '5902.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.03', 'Textile fabrics impregnated, coated,\ncovered or laminated with plastics,\nother than those of heading 59.02.', '', ''], ['', '5903.10', '- With poly(vinyl chloride) :', '', ''], ['5025', '5903.10.10', '- - Interlining', '0%', 'E0'], ['5026', '5903.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5027', '5903.20.00', '- With polyurethane', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5903.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5028', '5903.90.10', '- - Canvas-type fabrics impregnated,\ncoated, covered or laminated with nylon\nor other polyamides', '0%', 'E0'], ['5029', '5903.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.04', 'Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape;\nfloor coverings consisting of a coating\nor covering applied on a textile\nbacking, whether or not cut to shape.', '', ''], ['5030', '5904.10.00', '- Linoleum', '0%', 'E0'], ['5031', '5904.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.05', 'Textile wall coverings.', '', ''], ['5032', '5905.00.10', '- Of wool or fine or coarse animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5033', '5905.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.06', 'Rubberised textile fabrics, other than\nthose of heading 59.02.', '', ''], ['5034', '5906.10.00', '- Adhesive tape of a width not exceeding\n20 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5035', '5906.91.00', '- - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5906.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5036', '5906.99.10', '- - - Rubberised sheeting suitable for\nhospital use', '0%', 'E0'], ['5037', '5906.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.07', 'Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated,\ncoated or covered; painted canvas\nbeing theatrical scenery, studio back-\ncloths or the like.', '', ''], ['5038', '5907.00.10', '- Fabrics impregnated, coated or covered\nwith oil or oil-based preparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['5039', '5907.00.30', '- Fabrics impregnated, coated or covered\nwith fire resistant substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['5040', '5907.00.40', '- Fabrics impregnated, coated or covered\nwith flock velvet, the entire surface of\nwhich is covered with textile flock', '0%', 'E0'], ['5041', '5907.00.50', '- Fabrics impregnated, coated or covered\nwith wax, tar, bitumen or similar products', '0%', 'E0'], ['5042', '5907.00.60', '- Fabrics impregnated, coated or covered\nwith other substances', '0%', 'E0'], ['5043', '5907.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.08', 'Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted,\nfor lamps, stoves, lighters, candles or\nthe like; incandescent gas mantles and\ntubular knitted gas mantle fabric\ntherefor, whether or not impregnated.', '', ''], ['5044', '5908.00.10', '- Wicks; incandescent gas mantles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5045', '5908.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.09', 'Textile hosepiping and similar textile\ntubing, with or without lining, armour\nor accessories of other materials.', '', ''], ['5046', '5909.00.10', '- Fire hoses', '0%', 'E0'], ['5047', '5909.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5048', '5910.00.00', 'Transmission or conveyor belts or\nbelting, of textile material, whether or\nnot impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated with plastics, or reinforced\nwith metal or other material.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '59.11', 'Textile products and articles, for\ntechnical uses, specified in Note 7 to\nthis Chapter.', '', ''], ['5049', '5911.10.00', '- Textile fabrics, felt and felt-lined woven\nfabrics, coated, covered or laminated with\nrubber, leather or other material, of a kind\nused for card clothing, and similar fabrics\nof a kind used for other technical\npurposes, including narrow fabrics made\nof velvet impregnated with rubber, for\ncovering weaving spindles (weaving\nbeams)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5050', '5911.20.00', '- Bolting cloth, whether or not made up', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Textile fabrics and felts, endless or fitted\nwith linking devices, of a kind used in\npaper-making or similar machines (for\nexample, for pulp or asbestos-cement) :', '', ''], ['5051', '5911.31.00', '- - Weighing less than 650 g/m2', '0%', 'E0'], ['5052', '5911.32.00', '- - Weighing 650 g/m2 or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['5053', '5911.40.00', '- Straining cloth of a kind used in oil\npresses or the like, including that of\nhuman hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '5911.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5054', '5911.90.10', '- - Gaskets and seals', '0%', 'E0'], ['5055', '5911.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.01', 'Pile fabrics, including “long pile”\nfabrics and terry fabrics, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', ''], ['5056', '6001.10.00', '- “Long pile” fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Looped pile fabrics :', '', ''], ['5057', '6001.21.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5058', '6001.22.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5059', '6001.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5060', '6001.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6001.92', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5061', '6001.92.20', '- - - Pile fabrics of 100 % polyester staple\nfibres, of a width not less than 63.5 mm\nbut not more than 76.2 mm, suitable for\nuse in the manufacture of paint rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['5062', '6001.92.30', '- - - Containing elastomeric yarn or\nrubber thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5063', '6001.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6001.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Unbleached, not mercerised :', '', ''], ['5064', '6001.99.11', '- - - - Containing elastomeric yarn or\nrubber thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5065', '6001.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5066', '6001.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.02', 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width\nnot exceeding 30 cm, containing by\nweight 5 % or more of elastomeric yarn\nor rubber thread, other than those of\nheading 60.01.', '', ''], ['5067', '6002.40.00', '- Containing by weight 5 % or more of\nelastomeric yarn but not containing\nrubber thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5068', '6002.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.03', 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width\nnot exceeding 30 cm, other than those\nof heading 60.01 or 60.02.', '', ''], ['5069', '6003.10.00', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5070', '6003.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5071', '6003.30.00', '- Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5072', '6003.40.00', '- Of artificial fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5073', '6003.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.04', 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width\nexceeding 30 cm, containing by weight\n5 % or more of elastomeric yarn or\nrubber thread, other than those of\nheading 60.01.', '', ''], ['', '6004.10', '- Containing by weight 5 % or more of\nelastomeric yarn but not containing\nrubber thread :', '', ''], ['5074', '6004.10.10', '- - Containing by weight not more than\n20 % of elastomeric yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['5075', '6004.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5076', '6004.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.05', 'Warp knit fabrics (including those\nmade on galloon knitting machines),\nother than those of headings 60.01 to\n60.04.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5077', '6005.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['5078', '6005.22.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5079', '6005.23.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['5080', '6005.24.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['5081', '6005.35.00', '- - Fabrics specified in Subheading Note 1\nto this Chapter', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6005.36', '- - Other, unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['5082', '6005.36.10', '- - - Knitted swimwear fabrics of\npolyester and polybutylene terephthalate\nin which polyester predominates by\nweight', '0%', 'E0'], ['5083', '6005.36.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6005.37', '- - Other, dyed :', '', ''], ['5084', '6005.37.10', '- - - Knitted swimwear fabrics of\npolyester and polybutylene terephthalate\nin which polyester predominates by\nweight', '0%', 'E0'], ['5085', '6005.37.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6005.38', '- - Other, of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['5086', '6005.38.10', '- - - Knitted swimwear fabrics of\npolyester and polybutylene terephthalate\nin which polyester predominates by', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'weight', '', ''], ['5087', '6005.38.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6005.39', '- - Other, printed :', '', ''], ['5088', '6005.39.10', '- - - Knitted swimwear fabrics of\npolyester and polybutylene terephthalate\nin which polyester predominates by\nweight', '0%', 'E0'], ['5089', '6005.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of artificial fibres :', '', ''], ['5090', '6005.41.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['5091', '6005.42.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5092', '6005.43.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['5093', '6005.44.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6005.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5094', '6005.90.10', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5095', '6005.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '60.06', 'Other knitted or crocheted fabrics.', '', ''], ['5096', '6006.10.00', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5097', '6006.21.00', '- - Unbleached or bleached', '0%', 'E0'], ['5098', '6006.22.00', '- - Dyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5099', '6006.23.00', '- - Of yarns of different colours', '0%', 'E0'], ['5100', '6006.24.00', '- - Printed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['', '6006.31', '- - Unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['5101', '6006.31.10', '- - - Nylon fibre mesh of a kind used as\nbacking material for mosaic tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5102', '6006.31.20', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5103', '6006.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.32', '- - Dyed :', '', ''], ['5104', '6006.32.10', '- - - Nylon fibre mesh of a kind used as\nbacking material for mosaic tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5105', '6006.32.20', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5106', '6006.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.33', '- - Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['5107', '6006.33.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5108', '6006.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.34', '- - Printed :', '', ''], ['5109', '6006.34.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5110', '6006.34.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of artificial fibres :', '', ''], ['', '6006.41', '- - Unbleached or bleached :', '', ''], ['5111', '6006.41.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5112', '6006.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.42', '- - Dyed :', '', ''], ['5113', '6006.42.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5114', '6006.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.43', '- - Of yarns of different colours :', '', ''], ['5115', '6006.43.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5116', '6006.43.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6006.44', '- - Printed :', '', ''], ['5117', '6006.44.10', '- - - Elastic (combined with rubber\nthreads)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5118', '6006.44.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5119', '6006.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.01', 'Men’s or boys’ overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets\nand similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, other than those of heading\n61.03.', '', ''], ['5120', '6101.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5121', '6101.30.00', '- Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5122', '6101.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.02', 'Women’s or girls’ overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets\nand similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, other than those of heading\n61.04.', '', ''], ['5123', '6102.10.00', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5124', '6102.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5125', '6102.30.00', '- Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5126', '6102.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.03', 'Men’s or boys’ suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, trousers, bib and brace\noveralls, breeches and shorts (other\nthan swimwear), knitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['5127', '6103.10.00', '- Suits', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ensembles :', '', ''], ['5128', '6103.22.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5129', '6103.23.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5130', '6103.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Jackets and blazers :', '', ''], ['5131', '6103.31.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5132', '6103.32.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5133', '6103.33.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6103.39', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5134', '6103.39.10', '- - - Of ramie, linen or silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5135', '6103.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts :', '', ''], ['5136', '6103.41.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5137', '6103.42.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5138', '6103.43.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '25%', 'E0'], ['5139', '6103.49.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.04', 'Women’s or girls’ suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, dresses, skirts, divided\nskirts, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear), knitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Suits :', '', ''], ['5140', '6104.13.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6104.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5141', '6104.19.20', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5142', '6104.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ensembles :', '', ''], ['5143', '6104.22.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5144', '6104.23.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5145', '6104.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Jackets and blazers :', '', ''], ['5146', '6104.31.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5147', '6104.32.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5148', '6104.33.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5149', '6104.39.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dresses :', '', ''], ['5150', '6104.41.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5151', '6104.42.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5152', '6104.43.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5153', '6104.44.00', '- - Of artificial fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5154', '6104.49.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Skirts and divided skirts :', '', ''], ['5155', '6104.51.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5156', '6104.52.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5157', '6104.53.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5158', '6104.59.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts :', '', ''], ['5159', '6104.61.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5160', '6104.62.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5161', '6104.63.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5162', '6104.69.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.05', 'Men’s or boys’ shirts, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', ''], ['5163', '6105.10.00', '- Of cotton', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6105.20', '- Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5164', '6105.20.10', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '5%', 'E0'], ['5165', '6105.20.20', '- - Of artificial fibres', '5%', 'E0'], ['5166', '6105.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '61.06', 'Women’s or girls’ blouses, shirts and\nshirt-blouses, knitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['5167', '6106.10.00', '- Of cotton', '5%', 'E0'], ['5168', '6106.20.00', '- Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E0'], ['5169', '6106.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.07', 'Men’s or boys’ underpants, briefs,\nnightshirts, pyjamas, bathrobes,\ndressing gowns and similar articles,\nknitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Underpants and briefs :', '', ''], ['5170', '6107.11.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5171', '6107.12.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E7'], ['5172', '6107.19.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Nightshirts and pyjamas :', '', ''], ['5173', '6107.21.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5174', '6107.22.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['5175', '6107.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5176', '6107.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5177', '6107.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '61.08', 'Women’s or girls’ slips, petticoats,\nbriefs, panties, nightdresses, pyjamas,\nnegligees, bathrobes, dressing gowns\nand similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Slips and petticoats :', '', ''], ['5178', '6108.11.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '6108.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5179', '6108.19.20', '- - - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5180', '6108.19.30', '- - - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5181', '6108.19.40', '- - - Of silk', '5%', 'E0'], ['5182', '6108.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Briefs and panties :', '', ''], ['5183', '6108.21.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5184', '6108.22.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['5185', '6108.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Nightdresses and pyjamas :', '', ''], ['5186', '6108.31.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5187', '6108.32.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['5188', '6108.39.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5189', '6108.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5190', '6108.92.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['5191', '6108.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '61.09', 'T-shirts, singlets and other vests,\nknitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '6109.10', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5192', '6109.10.10', '- - For men or boys', '5%', 'E10'], ['5193', '6109.10.20', '- - For women or girls', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '6109.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5194', '6109.90.10', '- - For men or boys, of ramie, linen or silk', '5%', 'E0'], ['5195', '6109.90.20', '- - For men or boys, of other textile\nmaterials', '5%', 'E7'], ['5196', '6109.90.30', '- - For women or girls', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '61.10', 'Jerseys, pullovers, cardigans,\nwaistcoats and similar articles, knitted\nor crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of wool or fine animal hair :', '', ''], ['5197', '6110.11.00', '- - Of wool', '0%', 'E0'], ['5198', '6110.12.00', '- - Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', '0%', 'E0'], ['5199', '6110.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['5200', '6110.20.00', '- Of cotton', '5%', 'E10'], ['5201', '6110.30.00', '- Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E10'], ['5202', '6110.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '61.11', 'Babies’ garments and clothing\naccessories, knitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['5203', '6111.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5204', '6111.30.00', '- Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6111.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5205', '6111.90.10', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5206', '6111.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.12', 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear,\nknitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Track suits :', '', ''], ['5207', '6112.11.00', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E0'], ['5208', '6112.12.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '5%', 'E0'], ['5209', '6112.19.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['5210', '6112.20.00', '- Ski suits', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Men’s or boys’ swimwear :', '', ''], ['5211', '6112.31.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '5%', 'E0'], ['5212', '6112.39.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Women’s or girls’ swimwear :', '', ''], ['', '6112.41', '- - Of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['5213', '6112.41.10', '- - - Mastectomy Swimwear (post breast\nsurgery swimwear)', '5%', 'E0'], ['5214', '6112.41.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6112.49', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5215', '6112.49.10', '- - - Mastectomy Swimwear (post breast\nsurgery swimwear)', '5%', 'E0'], ['5216', '6112.49.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '61.13', 'Garments, made up of knitted or\ncrocheted fabrics of heading 59.03,\n59.06 or 59.07.', '', ''], ['5217', '6113.00.10', '- Divers’ suits (wetsuits)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5218', '6113.00.30', '- Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5219', '6113.00.40', '- Other protective work garments', '0%', 'E0'], ['5220', '6113.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.14', 'Other garments, knitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['5221', '6114.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6114.30', '- Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5222', '6114.30.20', '- - Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5223', '6114.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6114.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5224', '6114.90.10', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5225', '6114.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.15', 'Panty hose, tights, stockings, socks and\nother hosiery, including graduated\ncompression hosiery (for example,\nstockings for varicose veins) and\nfootwear without applied soles, knitted\nor crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '6115.10', '- Graduated compression hosiery (for\nexample, stockings for varicose veins) :', '', ''], ['5226', '6115.10.10', '- - Stockings for varicose veins, of\nsynthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5227', '6115.10.90', '- - Other', '25%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other panty hose and tights :', '', ''], ['5228', '6115.21.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres, measuring per\nsingle yarn less than 67 decitex', '0%', 'E0'], ['5229', '6115.22.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres, measuring per\nsingle yarn 67 decitex or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6115.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5230', '6115.29.10', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5231', '6115.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6115.30', "- Other women's full-length or knee-\nlength hosiery, measuring per single yarn\nless than 67 decitex :", '', ''], ['5232', '6115.30.10', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5233', '6115.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5234', '6115.94.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5235', '6115.95.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5236', '6115.96.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5237', '6115.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '25%', 'E0'], ['', '61.16', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', ''], ['', '6116.10', '- Impregnated, coated or covered with\nplastics or rubber :', '', ''], ['5238', '6116.10.10', "- - Divers' gloves", '0%', 'E0'], ['5239', '6116.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5240', '6116.91.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5241', '6116.92.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5242', '6116.93.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5243', '6116.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '61.17', 'Other made up clothing accessories,\nknitted or crocheted; knitted or\ncrocheted parts of garments or of\nclothing accessories.', '', ''], ['', '6117.10', '- Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas,\nveils and the like :', '', ''], ['5244', '6117.10.10', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5245', '6117.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6117.80', '- Other accessories :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Ties, bow ties and cravats :', '', ''], ['5246', '6117.80.11', '- - - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5247', '6117.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5248', '6117.80.20', '- - Wrist bands, knee bands or ankle bands', '0%', 'E0'], ['5249', '6117.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5250', '6117.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.01', 'Men’s or boys’ overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets\nand similar articles, other than those of\nheading 62.03.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes,\ncloaks and similar articles :', '', ''], ['5251', '6201.11.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5252', '6201.12.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5253', '6201.13.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6201.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5254', '6201.19.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5255', '6201.19.20', '- - - Of ramie', '0%', 'E0'], ['5256', '6201.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5257', '6201.91.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5258', '6201.92.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5259', '6201.93.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6201.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5260', '6201.99.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5261', '6201.99.20', '- - - Of ramie', '0%', 'E0'], ['5262', '6201.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.02', 'Women’s or girls’ overcoats, car-coats,\ncapes, cloaks, anoraks (including ski-\njackets), wind-cheaters, wind-jackets\nand similar articles, other than those of\nheading 62.04.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes,\ncloaks and similar articles :', '', ''], ['5263', '6202.11.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['5264', '6202.12.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5265', '6202.13.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6202.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5266', '6202.19.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5267', '6202.19.20', '- - - Of ramie', '0%', 'E0'], ['5268', '6202.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5269', '6202.91.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5270', '6202.92.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5271', '6202.93.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6202.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5272', '6202.99.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5273', '6202.99.20', '- - - Of ramie', '0%', 'E0'], ['5274', '6202.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.03', 'Men’s or boys’ suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, trousers, bib and brace\noveralls, breeches and shorts (other\nthan swimwear).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Suits :', '', ''], ['5275', '6203.11.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['5276', '6203.12.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6203.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5277', '6203.19.11', '- - - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5278', '6203.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of silk :', '', ''], ['5279', '6203.19.21', '- - - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5280', '6203.19.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5281', '6203.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ensembles :', '', ''], ['', '6203.22', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5282', '6203.22.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5283', '6203.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5284', '6203.23.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6203.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5285', '6203.29.10', '- - - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5286', '6203.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Jackets and blazers :', '', ''], ['5287', '6203.31.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '6203.32', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5288', '6203.32.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '23%', 'E15'], ['5289', '6203.32.90', '- - - Other', '25%', 'EX'], ['5290', '6203.33.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5291', '6203.39.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts :', '', ''], ['5292', '6203.41.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '6203.42', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5293', '6203.42.10', '- - - Bib and brace overalls', '0%', 'E0'], ['5294', '6203.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5295', '6203.43.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6203.49', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5296', '6203.49.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5297', '6203.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.04', 'Women’s or girls’ suits, ensembles,\njackets, blazers, dresses, skirts, divided\nskirts, trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts (other than\nswimwear).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Suits :', '', ''], ['5298', '6204.11.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.12', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5299', '6204.12.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5300', '6204.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5301', '6204.13.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of silk :', '', ''], ['5302', '6204.19.11', '- - - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5303', '6204.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5304', '6204.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ensembles :', '', ''], ['5305', '6204.21.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.22', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5306', '6204.22.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5307', '6204.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5308', '6204.23.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5309', '6204.29.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5310', '6204.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Jackets and blazers :', '', ''], ['5311', '6204.31.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.32', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5312', '6204.32.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '23%', 'E15'], ['5313', '6204.32.90', '- - - Other', '25%', 'EX'], ['5314', '6204.33.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.39', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of silk :', '', ''], ['5315', '6204.39.11', '- - - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5316', '6204.39.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5317', '6204.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dresses :', '', ''], ['5318', '6204.41.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.42', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5319', '6204.42.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5320', '6204.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5321', '6204.43.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5322', '6204.44.00', '- - Of artificial fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.49', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5323', '6204.49.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5324', '6204.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Skirts and divided skirts :', '', ''], ['5325', '6204.51.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.52', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5326', '6204.52.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5327', '6204.52.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5328', '6204.53.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6204.59', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5329', '6204.59.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5330', '6204.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Trousers, bib and brace overalls,\nbreeches and shorts :', '', ''], ['5331', '6204.61.00', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '20%', 'E0'], ['5332', '6204.62.00', '- - Of cotton', '25%', 'E15'], ['5333', '6204.63.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5334', '6204.69.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.05', 'Men’s or boys’ shirts.', '', ''], ['', '6205.20', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5335', '6205.20.10', '- - Printed by traditional batik process', '5%', 'E10'], ['5336', '6205.20.20', '- - Barong Tagalog', '5%', 'E10'], ['5337', '6205.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '6205.30', '- Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5338', '6205.30.10', '- - Barong Tagalog', '5%', 'E7'], ['5339', '6205.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '6205.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5340', '6205.90.10', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5341', '6205.90.91', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5342', '6205.90.92', '- - - Barong Tagalog', '0%', 'E0'], ['5343', '6205.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.06', 'Women’s or girls’ blouses, shirts and\nshirt-blouses.', '', ''], ['', '6206.10', '- Of silk or silk waste :', '', ''], ['5344', '6206.10.10', '- - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5345', '6206.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5346', '6206.20.00', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6206.30', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5347', '6206.30.10', '- - Printed by traditional batik process', '5%', 'E7'], ['5348', '6206.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['5349', '6206.40.00', '- Of man-made fibres', '5%', 'E7'], ['5350', '6206.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.07', 'Men’s or boys’ singlets and other vests,\nunderpants, briefs, nightshirts,\npyjamas, bathrobes, dressing gowns\nand similar articles.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Underpants and briefs :', '', ''], ['5351', '6207.11.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5352', '6207.19.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Nightshirts and pyjamas :', '', ''], ['', '6207.21', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5353', '6207.21.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5354', '6207.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5355', '6207.22.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6207.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5356', '6207.29.10', '- - - Of silk', '0%', 'E0'], ['5357', '6207.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5358', '6207.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6207.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5359', '6207.99.10', '- - - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5360', '6207.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.08', 'Women’s or girls’ singlets and other\nvests, slips, petticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, negligees,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Slips and petticoats :', '', ''], ['5361', '6208.11.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5362', '6208.19.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Nightdresses and pyjamas :', '', ''], ['', '6208.21', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5363', '6208.21.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5364', '6208.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5365', '6208.22.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6208.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5366', '6208.29.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '25%', 'E15'], ['5367', '6208.29.90', '- - - Other', '25%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '6208.91', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5368', '6208.91.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5369', '6208.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6208.92', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5370', '6208.92.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5371', '6208.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6208.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5372', '6208.99.10', '- - - Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['5373', '6208.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.09', 'Babies’ garments and clothing\naccessories.', '', ''], ['', '6209.20', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5374', '6209.20.30', '- - T-shirts, shirts, pyjamas and similar\narticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5375', '6209.20.40', '- - Suits, pants and similar articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5376', '6209.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6209.30', '- Of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['5377', '6209.30.10', '- - Suits, pants and similar articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5378', '6209.30.30', '- - T-shirts, shirts, pyjamas and similar\narticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5379', '6209.30.40', '- - Clothing accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['5380', '6209.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5381', '6209.90.00', '- Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.10', 'Garments, made up of fabrics of\nheading 56.02, 56.03, 59.03, 59.06 or\n59.07.', '', ''], ['', '6210.10', '- Of fabrics of heading 56.02 or 56.03 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Protective work garments :', '', ''], ['5382', '6210.10.11', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances, radiation or fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5383', '6210.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5384', '6210.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6210.20', '- Other garments, of the type described in\nsubheadings 6201.11 to 6201.19 :', '', ''], ['5385', '6210.20.20', '- - Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5386', '6210.20.30', '- - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5387', '6210.20.40', '- - Other protective work garments', '0%', 'E0'], ['5388', '6210.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6210.30', '- Other garments, of the type described in\nsubheadings 6202.11 to 6202.19 :', '', ''], ['5389', '6210.30.20', '- - Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5390', '6210.30.30', '- - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5391', '6210.30.40', '- - Other protective work garments', '0%', 'E0'], ['5392', '6210.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6210.40', '- Other men’s or boys’ garments :', '', ''], ['5393', '6210.40.10', '- - Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5394', '6210.40.20', '- - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5395', '6210.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6210.50', '- Other women’s or girls’ garments :', '', ''], ['5396', '6210.50.10', '- - Garments used for protection from fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5397', '6210.50.20', '- - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5398', '6210.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.11', 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear;\nother garments.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Swimwear :', '', ''], ['5399', '6211.11.00', '- - Men’s or boys’', '5%', 'E0'], ['5400', '6211.12.00', '- - Women’s or girls’', '5%', 'E0'], ['5401', '6211.20.00', '- Ski suits', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other garments, men’s or boys’ :', '', ''], ['', '6211.32', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5402', '6211.32.10', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '5%', 'E0'], ['5403', '6211.32.20', '- - - Pilgrimage robes (Ehram)', '5%', 'E0'], ['5404', '6211.32.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6211.33', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5405', '6211.33.10', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '0%', 'E0'], ['5406', '6211.33.20', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nfire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5407', '6211.33.30', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5408', '6211.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6211.39', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5409', '6211.39.10', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '0%', 'E0'], ['5410', '6211.39.20', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nfire', '0%', 'E0'], ['5411', '6211.39.30', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances or radiation', '0%', 'E0'], ['5412', '6211.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other garments, women’s or girls’ :', '', ''], ['', '6211.42', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5413', '6211.42.10', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '5%', 'E0'], ['5414', '6211.42.20', '- - - Prayer cloaks', '5%', 'E0'], ['5415', '6211.42.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6211.43', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5416', '6211.43.10', '- - - Surgical gowns', '0%', 'E0'], ['5417', '6211.43.20', '- - - Prayer cloaks', '5%', 'E0'], ['5418', '6211.43.30', '- - - Anti-explosive protective suits', '5%', 'E0'], ['5419', '6211.43.40', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '5%', 'E0'], ['5420', '6211.43.50', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances, radiation or fire', '5%', 'E0'], ['5421', '6211.43.60', "- - - Flyers' coveralls", '0%', 'E0'], ['5422', '6211.43.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6211.49', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5423', '6211.49.10', '- - - Garments for fencing or wrestling', '0%', 'E0'], ['5424', '6211.49.20', '- - - Garments used for protection from\nchemical substances, radiation or fire', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Prayer cloaks :', '', ''], ['5425', '6211.49.31', '- - - - Of wool or of fine animal hair', '5%', 'E0'], ['5426', '6211.49.39', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['5427', '6211.49.40', '- - - Other, of wool or fine animal hair', '5%', 'E0'], ['5428', '6211.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.12', 'Brassieres, girdles, corsets, braces,\nsuspenders, garters and similar articles\nand parts thereof, whether or not\nknitted or crocheted.', '', ''], ['', '6212.10', '- Brassieres :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5429', '6212.10.11', '- - - Mastectomy bra (post breast surgery\nbra)', '5%', 'E0'], ['5430', '6212.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5431', '6212.10.91', '- - - Mastectomy bra (post breast surgery\nbra)', '5%', 'E0'], ['5432', '6212.10.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6212.20', '- Girdles and panty-girdles :', '', ''], ['5433', '6212.20.10', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E0'], ['5434', '6212.20.90', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6212.30', '- Corselettes :', '', ''], ['5435', '6212.30.10', '- - Of cotton', '5%', 'E0'], ['5436', '6212.30.90', '- - Of other textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6212.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5437', '6212.90.11', '- - - Compression garments of a kind used\nfor the treatment of scar tissue and skin\ngrafts', '5%', 'E0'], ['5438', '6212.90.12', '- - - Athletic supporters', '5%', 'E0'], ['5439', '6212.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5440', '6212.90.91', '- - - Compression garment of a kind used\nfor the treatment of scar tissue and skin\ngrafts', '5%', 'E0'], ['5441', '6212.90.92', '- - - Athletic supporters', '5%', 'E0'], ['5442', '6212.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '62.13', 'Handkerchiefs.', '', ''], ['', '6213.20', '- Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5443', '6213.20.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5444', '6213.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6213.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of silk or silk waste :', '', ''], ['5445', '6213.90.11', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['5446', '6213.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5447', '6213.90.91', '- - - Printed by the traditional batik\nprocess', '0%', 'E0'], ['5448', '6213.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.14', 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas,\nveils and the like.', '', ''], ['', '6214.10', '- Of silk or silk waste :', '', ''], ['5449', '6214.10.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '8%', 'E0'], ['5450', '6214.10.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['5451', '6214.20.00', '- Of wool or fine animal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6214.30', '- Of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['5452', '6214.30.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5453', '6214.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6214.40', '- Of artificial fibres :', '', ''], ['5454', '6214.40.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5455', '6214.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6214.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5456', '6214.90.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5457', '6214.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.15', 'Ties, bow ties and cravats.', '', ''], ['', '6215.10', '- Of silk or silk waste :', '', ''], ['5458', '6215.10.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5459', '6215.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6215.20', '- Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5460', '6215.20.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5461', '6215.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6215.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5462', '6215.90.10', '- - Printed by the traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5463', '6215.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '62.16', 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.', '', ''], ['5464', '6216.00.10', '- Protective work gloves, mittens and\nmitts', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5465', '6216.00.91', '- - Of wool or fine animal hair', '8%', 'E0'], ['5466', '6216.00.92', '- - Of cotton', '8%', 'E0'], ['5467', '6216.00.99', '- - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '62.17', 'Other made up clothing accessories;\nparts of garments or of clothing\naccessories, other than those of heading\n62.12.', '', ''], ['', '6217.10', '- Accessories :', '', ''], ['5468', '6217.10.10', '- - Judo belts', '0%', 'E0'], ['5469', '6217.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5470', '6217.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nOTHER MADE UP TEXTILE\nARTICLES', '', ''], ['', '63.01', 'Blankets and travelling rugs.', '', ''], ['5471', '6301.10.00', '- Electric blankets', '0%', 'E0'], ['5472', '6301.20.00', '- Blankets (other than electric blankets)\nand travelling rugs, of wool or of fine\nanimal hair', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6301.30', '- Blankets (other than electric blankets)\nand travelling rugs, of cotton :', '', ''], ['5473', '6301.30.10', '- - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5474', '6301.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6301.40', '- Blankets (other than electric blankets)\nand travelling rugs, of synthetic fibres :', '', ''], ['5475', '6301.40.10', '- - Of nonwoven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5476', '6301.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6301.90', '- Other blankets and travelling rugs :', '', ''], ['5477', '6301.90.10', '- - Of nonwoven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5478', '6301.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.02', 'Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and\nkitchen linen.', '', ''], ['5479', '6302.10.00', '- Bed linen, knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other bed linen, printed :', '', ''], ['5480', '6302.21.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6302.22', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5481', '6302.22.10', '- - - Of nonwoven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5482', '6302.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5483', '6302.29.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other bed linen :', '', ''], ['5484', '6302.31.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6302.32', '- - Of man-made fibres :', '', ''], ['5485', '6302.32.10', '- - - Of nonwoven fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5486', '6302.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5487', '6302.39.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['5488', '6302.40.00', '- Table linen, knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other table linen :', '', ''], ['', '6302.51', '- - Of cotton :', '', ''], ['5489', '6302.51.10', '- - - Printed by traditional batik process', '0%', 'E0'], ['5490', '6302.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5491', '6302.53.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6302.59', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5492', '6302.59.10', '- - - Of flax', '0%', 'E0'], ['5493', '6302.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5494', '6302.60.00', '- Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of terry\ntowelling or similar terry fabrics, of\ncotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5495', '6302.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5496', '6302.93.00', '- - Of man-made fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6302.99', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5497', '6302.99.10', '- - - Of flax', '0%', 'E0'], ['5498', '6302.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.03', 'Curtains (including drapes) and\ninterior blinds; curtain or bed valances.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Knitted or crocheted :', '', ''], ['5499', '6303.12.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6303.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5500', '6303.19.10', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5501', '6303.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5502', '6303.91.00', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5503', '6303.92.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5504', '6303.99.00', '- - Of other textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.04', 'Other furnishing articles, excluding\nthose of heading 94.04.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Bedspreads :', '', ''], ['5505', '6304.11.00', '- - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6304.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5506', '6304.19.10', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5507', '6304.19.20', '- - - Other, nonwoven', '0%', 'E0'], ['5508', '6304.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5509', '6304.20.00', '- Bed nets specified in Subheading Note 1\nto this Chapter', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '6304.91', '- - Knitted or crocheted :', '', ''], ['5510', '6304.91.10', '- - - Mosquito nets', '0%', 'E0'], ['5511', '6304.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5512', '6304.92.00', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5513', '6304.93.00', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of synthetic\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5514', '6304.99.00', '- - Not knitted or crocheted, of other\ntextile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.05', 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the\npacking of goods.', '', ''], ['', '6305.10', '- Of jute or of other textile bast fibres of\nheading 53.03 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - New :', '', ''], ['5515', '6305.10.11', '- - - Of jute', '0%', 'E0'], ['5516', '6305.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Used :', '', ''], ['5517', '6305.10.21', '- - - Of jute', '0%', 'E0'], ['5518', '6305.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5519', '6305.20.00', '- Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of man-made textile materials :', '', ''], ['', '6305.32', '- - Flexible intermediate bulk containers :', '', ''], ['5520', '6305.32.10', '- - - Nonwoven', '0%', 'E0'], ['5521', '6305.32.20', '- - - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['5522', '6305.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6305.33', '- - Other, of polyethylene or\npolypropylene strip or the like :', '', ''], ['5523', '6305.33.10', '- - - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['5524', '6305.33.20', '- - - Of woven fabrics of strip or the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['5525', '6305.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6305.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5526', '6305.39.10', '- - - Nonwoven', '0%', 'E0'], ['5527', '6305.39.20', '- - - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['5528', '6305.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6305.90', '- Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5529', '6305.90.10', '- - Of hemp of heading 53.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['5530', '6305.90.20', '- - Of coconut (coir) of heading 53.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['5531', '6305.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.06', 'Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds;\ntents; sails for boats, sailboards or\nlandcraft; camping goods.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds :', '', ''], ['5532', '6306.12.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6306.19', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5533', '6306.19.10', '- - - Of vegetable textile fibres of heading\n53.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['5534', '6306.19.20', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5535', '6306.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tents :', '', ''], ['5536', '6306.22.00', '- - Of synthetic fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6306.29', '- - Of other textile materials :', '', ''], ['5537', '6306.29.10', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5538', '6306.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5539', '6306.30.00', '- Sails', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6306.40', '- Pneumatic mattresses :', '', ''], ['5540', '6306.40.10', '- - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5541', '6306.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6306.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5542', '6306.90.10', '- - Of nonwoven', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5543', '6306.90.91', '- - - Of cotton', '0%', 'E0'], ['5544', '6306.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.07', 'Other made up articles, including dress\npatterns.', '', ''], ['', '6307.10', '- Floor-cloths, dish-cloths, dusters and\nsimilar cleaning cloths :', '', ''], ['5545', '6307.10.10', '- - Nonwoven other than felt', '0%', 'E0'], ['5546', '6307.10.20', '- - Of felt', '0%', 'E0'], ['5547', '6307.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5548', '6307.20.00', '- Life-jackets and life-belts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6307.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5549', '6307.90.30', '- - Umbrella covers in pre-cut triangular', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'form', '', ''], ['5550', '6307.90.40', '- - Surgical masks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Safety harnesses :', '', ''], ['5551', '6307.90.61', '- - - Suitable for industrial use', '0%', 'E0'], ['5552', '6307.90.69', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5553', '6307.90.70', '- - Fans and handscreens', '0%', 'E0'], ['5554', '6307.90.80', '- - Laces for shoes, boots, corsets and the\nlike', '0%', 'E0'], ['5555', '6307.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nSETS', '', ''], ['5556', '6308.00.00', 'Sets consisting of woven fabric and\nyarn, whether or not with accessories,\nfor making up into rugs, tapestries,\nembroidered table cloths or serviettes,\nor similar textile articles, put up in\npackings for retail sale.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER III\nWORN CLOTHING AND WORN\nTEXTILE ARTICLES; RAGS', '', ''], ['5557', '6309.00.00', 'Worn clothing and other worn articles.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '63.10', 'Used or new rags, scrap twine, cordage,\nrope and cables and worn out articles\nof twine, cordage, rope or cables, of\ntextile materials.', '', ''], ['', '6310.10', '- Sorted :', '', ''], ['5558', '6310.10.10', '- - Used or new rags', '0%', 'E0'], ['5559', '6310.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6310.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5560', '6310.90.10', '- - Used or new rags', '0%', 'E0'], ['5561', '6310.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.01', 'Waterproof footwear with outer soles\nand uppers of rubber or of plastics, the\nuppers of which are neither fixed to the\nsole nor assembled by stitching,\nriveting, nailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes.', '', ''], ['5562', '6401.10.00', '- Footwear incorporating a protective\nmetal toe-cap', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other footwear :', '', ''], ['5563', '6401.92.00', '- - Covering the ankle but not covering\nthe knee', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6401.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5564', '6401.99.10', '- - - Covering the knee', '0%', 'E0'], ['5565', '6401.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.02', 'Other footwear with outer soles and\nuppers of rubber or plastics.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sports footwear :', '', ''], ['5566', '6402.12.00', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear\nand snowboard boots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6402.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5567', '6402.19.10', '- - - Wrestling footwear', '0%', 'E0'], ['5568', '6402.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5569', '6402.20.00', '- Footwear with upper straps or thongs\nassembled to the sole by means of plugs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other footwear :', '', ''], ['', '6402.91', '- - Covering the ankle :', '', ''], ['5570', '6402.91.10', '- - - Diving boots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['5571', '6402.91.91', '- - - - Incorporating a protective metal toe-\ncap', '0%', 'E0'], ['5572', '6402.91.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6402.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5573', '6402.99.10', '- - - Incorporating a protective metal toe-\ncap', '0%', 'E0'], ['5574', '6402.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.03', 'Footwear with outer soles of rubber,\nplastics, leather or composition leather\nand uppers of leather.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Sports footwear :', '', ''], ['5575', '6403.12.00', '- - Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear\nand snowboard boots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6403.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5576', '6403.19.10', '- - - Fitted with spikes, cleats or the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['5577', '6403.19.20', '- - - Riding boots; bowling shoes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5578', '6403.19.30', '- - - Footwear for wrestling, weight-lifting\nor gymnastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5579', '6403.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5580', '6403.20.00', '- Footwear with outer soles of leather, and\nuppers which consist of leather straps\nacross the instep and around the big toe', '0%', 'E0'], ['5581', '6403.40.00', '- Other footwear, incorporating a\nprotective metal toe-cap', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other footwear with outer soles of\nleather :', '', ''], ['5582', '6403.51.00', '- - Covering the ankle', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6403.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5583', '6403.59.10', '- - - Bowling shoes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5584', '6403.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other footwear :', '', ''], ['', '6403.91', '- - Covering the ankle :', '', ''], ['5585', '6403.91.10', '- - - Footwear made on a base or platform\nof wood, not having an inner sole or\nprotective metal toe cap', '0%', 'E0'], ['5586', '6403.91.20', '- - - Riding boots', '0%', 'E0'], ['5587', '6403.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6403.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5588', '6403.99.10', '- - - Footwear made on a base or platform\nof wood, not having an inner sole or\nprotective metal toe cap', '0%', 'E0'], ['5589', '6403.99.20', '- - - Bowling shoes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5590', '6403.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.04', 'Footwear with outer soles of rubber,\nplastics, leather or composition leather', '', ''], ['', '', 'and uppers of textile materials.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Footwear with outer soles of rubber or\nplastics :', '', ''], ['', '6404.11', '- - Sports footwear; tennis shoes,\nbasketball shoes, gym shoes, training\nshoes and the like :', '', ''], ['5591', '6404.11.10', '- - - Fitted with spikes, cleats or the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['5592', '6404.11.20', '- - - Footwear for wrestling, weight-lifting\nor gymnastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5593', '6404.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5594', '6404.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5595', '6404.20.00', '- Footwear with outer soles of leather or\ncomposition leather', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.05', 'Other footwear.', '', ''], ['5596', '6405.10.00', '- With uppers of leather or composition\nleather', '0%', 'E0'], ['5597', '6405.20.00', '- With uppers of textile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['5598', '6405.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '64.06', 'Parts of footwear (including uppers\nwhether or not attached to soles other\nthan outer soles); removable in-soles,\nheel cushions and similar articles;\ngaiters, leggings and similar articles,\nand parts thereof.', '', ''], ['', '6406.10', '- Uppers and parts thereof, other than\nstiffeners :', '', ''], ['5599', '6406.10.10', '- - Metal toe-caps', '0%', 'E0'], ['5600', '6406.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6406.20', '- Outer soles and heels, of rubber or\nplastics :', '', ''], ['5601', '6406.20.10', '- - Of rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['5602', '6406.20.20', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6406.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5603', '6406.90.10', '- - Of wood', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of metal :', '', ''], ['5604', '6406.90.21', '- - - Of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['5605', '6406.90.22', '- - - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['5606', '6406.90.23', '- - - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['5607', '6406.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of rubber or plastics :', '', ''], ['5608', '6406.90.31', '- - - In-soles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5609', '6406.90.32', '- - - Complete soles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5610', '6406.90.33', '- - - Other, of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5611', '6406.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5612', '6406.90.91', '- - - Gaiters, leggings and similar articles\nand parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['5613', '6406.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5614', '6501.00.00', 'Hat-forms, hat bodies and hoods of felt,\nneither blocked to shape nor with made\nbrims; plateaux and manchons', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '(including slit manchons), of felt.', '', ''], ['5615', '6502.00.00', 'Hat-shapes, plaited or made by\nassembling strips of any material,\nneither blocked to shape, nor with\nmade brims, nor lined, nor trimmed.', '0%', 'E0'], ['5616', '6504.00.00', 'Hats and other headgear, plaited or\nmade by assembling strips of any\nmaterial, whether or not lined or\ntrimmed.', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '65.05', 'Hats and other headgear, knitted or\ncrocheted, or made up from lace, felt or\nother textile fabric, in the piece (but not\nin strips), whether or not lined or\ntrimmed; hair-nets of any material,\nwhether or not lined or trimmed.', '', ''], ['5617', '6505.00.10', '- Headgear of a kind used for religious\npurposes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5618', '6505.00.20', '- Hair-nets', '5%', 'E10'], ['5619', '6505.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '65.06', 'Other headgear, whether or not lined or\ntrimmed.', '', ''], ['', '6506.10', '- Safety headgear :', '', ''], ['5620', '6506.10.10', '- - Helmets for motorcyclists', '0%', 'E0'], ['5621', '6506.10.20', '- - Industrial safety helmets and\nfirefighters’ helmets, excluding steel\nhelmets', '0%', 'E0'], ['5622', '6506.10.30', '- - Steel helmets', '0%', 'E0'], ['5623', '6506.10.40', '- - Water-polo headgear', '0%', 'E0'], ['5624', '6506.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5625', '6506.91.00', '- - Of rubber or of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6506.99', '- - Of other materials :', '', ''], ['5626', '6506.99.10', '- - - Of furskin', '0%', 'E0'], ['5627', '6506.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5628', '6507.00.00', 'Head-bands, linings, covers, hat\nfoundations, hat frames, peaks and\nchinstraps, for headgear.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '66.01', 'Umbrellas and sun umbrellas\n(including walking-stick umbrellas,\ngarden umbrellas and similar\numbrellas).', '', ''], ['5629', '6601.10.00', '- Garden or similar umbrellas', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5630', '6601.91.00', '- - Having a telescopic shaft', '0%', 'E0'], ['5631', '6601.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5632', '6602.00.00', 'Walking-sticks, seat-sticks, whips,\nriding-crops and the like.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '66.03', 'Parts, trimmings and accessories of\narticles of heading 66.01 or 66.02.', '', ''], ['5633', '6603.20.00', '- Umbrella frames, including frames\nmounted on shafts (sticks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6603.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5634', '6603.90.10', '- - For articles of heading 66.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['5635', '6603.90.20', '- - For articles of heading 66.02', '0%', 'E0'], ['5636', '6701.00.00', 'Skins and other parts of birds with\ntheir feathers or down, feathers, parts\nof feathers, down and articles thereof\n(other than goods of heading 05.05 and\nworked quills and scapes).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '67.02', 'Artificial flowers, foliage and fruit and\nparts thereof; articles made of artificial\nflowers, foliage or fruit.', '', ''], ['5637', '6702.10.00', '- Of plastics', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '6702.90', '- Of other materials :', '', ''], ['5638', '6702.90.10', '- - Of paper', '5%', 'E0'], ['5639', '6702.90.20', '- - Of textile materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['5640', '6702.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['5641', '6703.00.00', 'Human hair, dressed, thinned, bleached\nor otherwise worked; wool or other\nanimal hair or other textile materials,\nprepared for use in making wigs or the\nlike.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '67.04', 'Wigs, false beards, eyebrows and\neyelashes, switches and the like, of\nhuman or animal hair or of textile\nmaterials; articles of human hair not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of synthetic textile materials :', '', ''], ['5642', '6704.11.00', '- - Complete wigs', '5%', 'E0'], ['5643', '6704.19.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['5644', '6704.20.00', '- Of human hair', '5%', 'E0'], ['5645', '6704.90.00', '- Of other materials', '5%', 'E0'], ['5646', '6801.00.00', 'Setts, curbstones and flagstones, of\nnatural stone (except slate).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.02', 'Worked monumental or building stone\n(except slate) and articles thereof, other\nthan goods of heading 68.01; mosaic\ncubes and the like, of natural stone\n(including slate), whether or not on a\nbacking; artificially coloured granules,\nchippings and powder, of natural stone\n(including slate).', '', ''], ['5647', '6802.10.00', '- Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether\nor not rectangular (including square), the\nlargest surface area of which is capable of\nbeing enclosed in a square the side of\nwhich is less than 7 cm; artificially\ncoloured granules, chippings and powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other monumental or building stone and\narticles thereof, simply cut or sawn, with\na flat or even surface :', '', ''], ['5648', '6802.21.00', '- - Marble, travertine and alabaster', '0%', 'E0'], ['5649', '6802.23.00', '- - Granite', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6802.29', '- - Other stone :', '', ''], ['5650', '6802.29.10', '- - - Other calcareous stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['5651', '6802.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '6802.91', '- - Marble, travertine and alabaster :', '', ''], ['5652', '6802.91.10', '- - - Marble', '0%', 'E0'], ['5653', '6802.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5654', '6802.92.00', '- - Other calcareous stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6802.93', '- - Granite :', '', ''], ['5655', '6802.93.10', '- - - Polished slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['5656', '6802.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5657', '6802.99.00', '- - Other stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['5658', '6803.00.00', 'Worked slate and articles of slate or of\nagglomerated slate.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.04', 'Millstones, grindstones, grinding\nwheels and the like, without\nframeworks, for grinding, sharpening,\npolishing, trueing or cutting, hand\nsharpening or polishing stones, and\nparts thereof, of natural stone, of\nagglomerated natural or artificial\nabrasives, or of ceramics, with or\nwithout parts of other materials.', '', ''], ['5659', '6804.10.00', '- Millstones and grindstones for milling,\ngrinding or pulping', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other millstones, grindstones, grinding\nwheels and the like :', '', ''], ['5660', '6804.21.00', '- - Of agglomerated synthetic or natural\ndiamond', '0%', 'E0'], ['5661', '6804.22.00', '- - Of other agglomerated abrasives or of\nceramics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5662', '6804.23.00', '- - Of natural stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['5663', '6804.30.00', '- Hand sharpening or polishing stones', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.05', 'Natural or artificial abrasive powder or\ngrain, on a base of textile material, of\npaper, of paperboard or of other\nmaterials, whether or not cut to shape\nor sewn or otherwise made up.', '', ''], ['5664', '6805.10.00', '- On a base of woven textile fabric only', '0%', 'E0'], ['5665', '6805.20.00', '- On a base of paper or paperboard only', '0%', 'E0'], ['5666', '6805.30.00', '- On a base of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.06', 'Slag wool, rock wool and similar\nmineral wools; exfoliated vermiculite,\nexpanded clays, foamed slag and\nsimilar expanded mineral materials;\nmixtures and articles of heat-insulating,\nsound-insulating or sound-absorbing\nmineral materials, other than those of\nheading 68.11 or 68.12 or of Chapter\n69.', '', ''], ['5667', '6806.10.00', '- Slag wool, rock wool and similar\nmineral wools (including intermixtures\nthereof), in bulk, sheets or rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['5668', '6806.20.00', '- Exfoliated vermiculite, expanded clays,\nfoamed slag and similar expanded mineral\nmaterials (including intermixtures\nthereof)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5669', '6806.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.07', 'Articles of asphalt or of similar\nmaterial (for example, petroleum\nbitumen or coal tar pitch).', '', ''], ['5670', '6807.10.00', '- In rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6807.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5671', '6807.90.10', '- - Tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5672', '6807.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.08', 'Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and similar\narticles of vegetable fibre, of straw or of\nshavings, chips, particles, sawdust or\nother waste, of wood, agglomerated\nwith cement, plaster or other mineral\nbinders.', '', ''], ['5673', '6808.00.20', '- Roofing tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5674', '6808.00.30', '- Panels, boards, blocks and similar\narticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5675', '6808.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.09', 'Articles of plaster or of compositions\nbased on plaster.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Boards, sheets, panels, tiles and similar\narticles, not ornamented :', '', ''], ['5676', '6809.11.00', '- - Faced or reinforced with paper or\npaperboard only', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6809.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5677', '6809.19.10', '- - - Tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5678', '6809.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6809.90', '- Other articles :', '', ''], ['5679', '6809.90.10', '- - Dental moulds of plaster', '0%', 'E0'], ['5680', '6809.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.10', 'Articles of cement, of concrete or of\nartificial stone, whether or not\nreinforced.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Tiles, flagstones, bricks and similar\narticles :', '', ''], ['5681', '6810.11.00', '- - Building blocks and bricks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6810.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5682', '6810.19.10', '- - - Tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5683', '6810.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other articles :', '', ''], ['5684', '6810.91.00', '- - Prefabricated structural components\nfor building or civil engineering', '0%', 'E0'], ['5685', '6810.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.11', 'Articles of asbestos-cement, of cellulose\nfibre-cement or the like.', '', ''], ['', '6811.40', '- Containing asbestos :', '', ''], ['5686', '6811.40.10', '- - Corrugated sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other sheets, panels, tiles and similar\narticles :', '', ''], ['5687', '6811.40.21', '- - - Floor or wall tiles containing plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5688', '6811.40.22', '- - - For roofing, facing or partitioning', '0%', 'E0'], ['5689', '6811.40.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5690', '6811.40.30', '- - Tubes or pipes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5691', '6811.40.40', '- - Tube or pipe fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['5692', '6811.40.50', '- - Other articles, of a kind used for\nbuilding construction', '0%', 'E0'], ['5693', '6811.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Not containing asbestos :', '', ''], ['5694', '6811.81.00', '- - Corrugated sheets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6811.82', '- - Other sheets, panels, tiles and similar\narticles :', '', ''], ['5695', '6811.82.10', '- - - Floor or wall tiles containing plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5696', '6811.82.20', '- - - For roofing, facing or partitioning', '0%', 'E0'], ['5697', '6811.82.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6811.89', '- - Other articles :', '', ''], ['5698', '6811.89.10', '- - - Tubes or pipes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5699', '6811.89.20', '- - - Tube or pipe fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['5700', '6811.89.30', '- - - Other articles, of a kind used for\nbuilding construction', '0%', 'E0'], ['5701', '6811.89.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.12', 'Fabricated asbestos fibres; mixtures\nwith a basis of asbestos or with a basis\nof asbestos and magnesium carbonate;\narticles of such mixtures or of asbestos\n(for example, thread, woven fabric,\nclothing, headgear, footwear, gaskets),\nwhether or not reinforced, other than\ngoods of heading 68.11 or 68.13.', '', ''], ['', '6812.80', '- Of crocidolite :', '', ''], ['5702', '6812.80.20', '- - Clothing', '0%', 'E0'], ['5703', '6812.80.30', '- - Paper, millboard and felt', '0%', 'E0'], ['5704', '6812.80.40', '- - Floor or wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5705', '6812.80.50', '- - Clothing accessories, footwear and\nheadgear; fabricated crocidolite fibres;\nmixtures with a basis of crocidolite or\nwith a basis of crocidolite and magnesium\ncarbonate; yarn and thread; cords and\nstrings, whether or not plaited; woven or\nknitted fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['5706', '6812.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '6812.91', '- - Clothing, clothing accessories,\nfootwear and headgear :', '', ''], ['5707', '6812.91.10', '- - - Clothing', '0%', 'E0'], ['5708', '6812.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5709', '6812.92.00', '- - Paper, millboard and felt', '0%', 'E0'], ['5710', '6812.93.00', '- - Compressed asbestos fibre jointing, in', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'sheets or rolls', '', ''], ['', '6812.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fabricated asbestos fibres (other than\nof crocidolite); mixtures with a basis of\nasbestos (other than of crocidolite) or with\na basis of asbestos (other than of\ncrocidolite) and magnesium carbonate;\nyarn and thread; cords and strings,\nwhether or not plaited; woven or knitted\nfabrics :', '', ''], ['5711', '6812.99.11', '- - - - Mixtures with a basis of asbestos or\nwith a basis of asbestos and magnesium\ncarbonate of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of goods of heading 68.13', '0%', 'E0'], ['5712', '6812.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5713', '6812.99.20', '- - - Floor or wall tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5714', '6812.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.13', 'Friction material and articles thereof\n(for example, sheets, rolls, strips,\nsegments, discs, washers, pads), not\nmounted, for brakes, for clutches or the\nlike, with a basis of asbestos, of other\nmineral substances or of cellulose,\nwhether or not combined with textile or\nother materials.', '', ''], ['', '6813.20', '- Containing asbestos :', '', ''], ['5715', '6813.20.10', '- - Brake linings and pads', '0%', 'E0'], ['5716', '6813.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Not containing asbestos :', '', ''], ['5717', '6813.81.00', '- - Brake linings and pads', '0%', 'E0'], ['5718', '6813.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.14', 'Worked mica and articles of mica,\nincluding agglomerated or\nreconstituted mica, whether or not on a\nsupport of paper, paperboard or other\nmaterials.', '', ''], ['5719', '6814.10.00', '- Plates, sheets and strips of agglomerated\nor reconstituted mica, whether or not on a\nsupport', '0%', 'E0'], ['5720', '6814.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '68.15', 'Articles of stone or of other mineral\nsubstances (including carbon fibres,\narticles of carbon fibres and articles of\npeat), not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', ''], ['', '6815.10', '- Non-electrical articles of graphite or\nother carbon :', '', ''], ['5721', '6815.10.10', '- - Yarn or thread', '0%', 'E0'], ['5722', '6815.10.20', '- - Bricks, paving slabs, floor tiles and\nsimilar articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5723', '6815.10.91', '- - - Carbon fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['5724', '6815.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5725', '6815.20.00', '- Articles of peat', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other articles :', '', ''], ['5726', '6815.91.00', '- - Containing magnesite, dolomite or\nchromite', '0%', 'E0'], ['5727', '6815.99.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nGOODS OF SILICEOUS FOSSIL\nMEALS OR OF SIMILAR\nSILICEOUS EARTHS, AND\nREFRACTORY GOODS', '', ''], ['5728', '6901.00.00', 'Bricks, blocks, tiles and other ceramic\ngoods of siliceous fossil meals (for\nexample, kieselguhr, tripolite or\ndiatomite) or of similar siliceous earths.', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '69.02', 'Refractory bricks, blocks, tiles and\nsimilar refractory ceramic\nconstructional goods, other than those\nof siliceous fossil meals or similar\nsiliceous earths.', '', ''], ['5729', '6902.10.00', '- Containing by weight, singly or\ntogether, more than 50 % of the elements\nMg, Ca or Cr, expressed as MgO, CaO or\nCr O\n2 3', '0%', 'E0'], ['5730', '6902.20.00', '- Containing by weight more than 50 % of\nalumina (AI O ), of silica (SiO ) or of a\n2 3 2\nmixture or compound of these products', '0%', 'E0'], ['5731', '6902.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.03', 'Other refractory ceramic goods (for\nexample, retorts, crucibles, muffles,\nnozzles, plugs, supports, cupels, tubes,\npipes, sheaths and rods), other than\nthose of siliceous fossil meals or of\nsimilar siliceous earths.', '', ''], ['5732', '6903.10.00', '- Containing by weight more than 50 % of\ngraphite or other carbon or of a mixture of\nthese products', '0%', 'E0'], ['5733', '6903.20.00', '- Containing by weight more than 50 % of\nalumina (AI O ) or of a mixture or\n2 3\ncompound of alumina and of silica (SiO )\n2', '0%', 'E0'], ['5734', '6903.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nOTHER CERAMIC PRODUCTS', '', ''], ['', '69.04', 'Ceramic building bricks, flooring\nblocks, support or filler tiles and the\nlike.', '', ''], ['5735', '6904.10.00', '- Building bricks', '0%', 'E0'], ['5736', '6904.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.05', 'Roofing tiles, chimney-pots, cowls,\nchimney liners, architectural\nornaments and other ceramic\nconstructional goods.', '', ''], ['5737', '6905.10.00', '- Roofing tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5738', '6905.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5739', '6906.00.00', 'Ceramic pipes, conduits, guttering and\npipe fittings.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.07', 'Ceramic flags and paving, hearth or\nwall tiles; ceramic mosaic cubes and the\nlike, whether or not on a backing;\nfinishing ceramics.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nother than those of subheadings 6907.30\nand 6907.40 :', '', ''], ['', '6907.21', '- - Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight not exceeding 0.5 % :', '', ''], ['5740', '6907.21.10', '- - - Lining tiles of a kind used for\ngrinding mills, unglazed', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - - Other, having a largest surface area of\nwhich is capable of being enclosed in a\nsquare the side of which is less than 7\ncm :', '', ''], ['5741', '6907.21.21', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5742', '6907.21.22', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5743', '6907.21.23', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5744', '6907.21.24', '- - - - Other, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['5745', '6907.21.91', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5746', '6907.21.92', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5747', '6907.21.93', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5748', '6907.21.94', '- - - - Other, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '6907.22', '- - Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight exceeding 0.5 % but not exceeding\n10 % :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Having a largest surface area of\nwhich is capable of being enclosed in a\nsquare the side of which is less than 7\ncm :', '', ''], ['5749', '6907.22.11', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5750', '6907.22.12', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5751', '6907.22.13', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5752', '6907.22.14', '- - - - Other, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['5753', '6907.22.91', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5754', '6907.22.92', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5755', '6907.22.93', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5756', '6907.22.94', '- - - - Other, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '6907.23', '- - Of a water absorption coefficient by\nweight exceeding 10 % :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Having a largest surface area of\nwhich is capable of being enclosed in a\nsquare the side of which is less than 7\ncm :', '', ''], ['5757', '6907.23.11', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5758', '6907.23.12', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5759', '6907.23.13', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5760', '6907.23.14', '- - - - Other, glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['5761', '6907.23.91', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles,\nunglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5762', '6907.23.92', '- - - - Other, unglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5763', '6907.23.93', '- - - - Paving, hearth or wall tiles, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5764', '6907.23.94', '- - - - Other, glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '6907.30', '- Mosaic cubes and the like, other than\nthose of subheading 6907.40 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Unglazed :', '', ''], ['5765', '6907.30.11', '- - - Having a largest surface of which is\ncapable of being enclosed in a square the\nside of which is less than 7 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['5766', '6907.30.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5767', '6907.30.91', '- - - Having a largest surface area of\nwhich is capable of being enclosed in a\nsquare the side of which is less than 7 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['5768', '6907.30.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '6907.40', '- Finishing ceramics :', '', ''], ['5769', '6907.40.10', '- - Of a kind used for lining grinding\nmills, unglazed', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - Other articles, having a largest surface\narea visible after mounting is not\nexceeding 49 cm2 :', '', ''], ['5770', '6907.40.21', '- - - Unglazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5771', '6907.40.22', '- - - Glazed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5772', '6907.40.91', '- - - Unglazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['5773', '6907.40.92', '- - - Glazed', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '69.09', 'Ceramic wares for laboratory, chemical\nor other technical uses; ceramic\ntroughs, tubs and similar receptacles of\na kind used in agriculture; ceramic\npots, jars and similar articles of a kind\nused for the conveyance or packing of\ngoods.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Ceramic wares for laboratory, chemical\nor other technical uses :', '', ''], ['5774', '6909.11.00', '- - Of porcelain or china', '0%', 'E0'], ['5775', '6909.12.00', '- - Articles having a hardness equivalent\nto 9 or more on the Mohs scale', '0%', 'E0'], ['5776', '6909.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5777', '6909.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.10', 'Ceramic sinks, wash basins, wash basin\npedestals, baths, bidets, water closet\npans, flushing cisterns, urinals and\nsimilar sanitary fixtures.', '', ''], ['5778', '6910.10.00', '- Of porcelain or china', '8%', 'E5'], ['5779', '6910.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.11', 'Tableware, kitchenware, other\nhousehold articles and toilet articles, of\nporcelain or china.', '', ''], ['5780', '6911.10.00', '- Tableware and kitchenware', '0%', 'E0'], ['5781', '6911.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5782', '6912.00.00', 'Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other\nhousehold articles and toilet articles,\nother than of porcelain or china.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.13', 'Statuettes and other ornamental\nceramic articles.', '', ''], ['', '6913.10', '- Of porcelain or china :', '', ''], ['5783', '6913.10.10', '- - Ornamental cigarette boxes and\nashtrays', '0%', 'E0'], ['5784', '6913.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '6913.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5785', '6913.90.10', '- - Ornamental cigarette boxes and\nashtrays', '0%', 'E0'], ['5786', '6913.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '69.14', 'Other ceramic articles.', '', ''], ['5787', '6914.10.00', '- Of porcelain or china', '0%', 'E0'], ['5788', '6914.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5789', '7001.00.00', 'Cullet and other waste and scrap of\nglass; glass in the mass.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.02', 'Glass in balls (other than microspheres\nof heading 70.18), rods or tubes,\nunworked.', '', ''], ['5790', '7002.10.00', '- Balls', '0%', 'E0'], ['5791', '7002.20.00', '- Rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tubes :', '', ''], ['', '7002.31', '- - Of fused quartz or other fused silica :', '', ''], ['5792', '7002.31.10', '- - - Of a kind used to manufacture\nvacuum tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5793', '7002.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7002.32', '- - Of other glass having a linear\ncoefficient of expansion not exceeding 5 x\n10-6 per Kelvin within a temperature\nrange of 0 °C to 300 °C :', '', ''], ['5794', '7002.32.10', '- - - Of a kind used to manufacture\nvacuum tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5795', '7002.32.30', '- - - Borosilicate glass tubes of a kind\nused to manufacture phial/ampoules', '0%', 'E0'], ['5796', '7002.32.40', '- - - Other, of clear neutral borosilicate\nglass, with a diameter of 3 mm or more\nbut not more than 22 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['5797', '7002.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7002.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5798', '7002.39.10', '- - - Of a kind used to manufacture\nvacuum tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5799', '7002.39.20', '- - - Other, of clear neutral borosilicate\nglass, with a diameter of 3 mm or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'but not more than 22 mm', '', ''], ['5800', '7002.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.03', 'Cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or\nprofiles, whether or not having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting\nlayer, but not otherwise worked.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Non-wired sheets :', '', ''], ['', '7003.12', '- - Coloured throughout the mass (body\ntinted), opacified, flashed or having an\nabsorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting\nlayer :', '', ''], ['5801', '7003.12.10', '- - - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5802', '7003.12.20', '- - - Other, in squares or rectangular shape\nincluding 1 or more corners cut', '0%', 'E0'], ['5803', '7003.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7003.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5804', '7003.19.10', '- - - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5805', '7003.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7003.20', '- Wired sheets :', '', ''], ['5806', '7003.20.10', '- - In squares or rectangular shape\nincluding 1 or more corners cut', '0%', 'E0'], ['5807', '7003.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7003.30', '- Profiles :', '', ''], ['5808', '7003.30.10', '- - In squares or rectangular shape\nincluding 1 or more corners cut', '0%', 'E0'], ['5809', '7003.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.04', 'Drawn glass and blown glass, in sheets,\nwhether or not having an absorbent,\nreflecting or non-reflecting layer, but\nnot otherwise worked.', '', ''], ['', '7004.20', '- Glass, coloured throughout the mass\n(body tinted), opacified, flashed or having\nan absorbent, reflecting or non-reflecting\nlayer :', '', ''], ['5810', '7004.20.10', '- - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5811', '7004.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7004.90', '- Other glass :', '', ''], ['5812', '7004.90.10', '- - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5813', '7004.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.05', 'Float glass and surface ground or\npolished glass, in sheets, whether or not\nhaving an absorbent, reflecting or non-\nreflecting layer, but not otherwise\nworked.', '', ''], ['', '7005.10', '- Non-wired glass, having an absorbent,\nreflecting or non-reflecting layer :', '', ''], ['5814', '7005.10.10', '- - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5815', '7005.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other non-wired glass :', '', ''], ['', '7005.21', '- - Coloured throughout the mass (body\ntinted), opacified, flashed or merely', '', ''], ['', '', 'surface ground :', '', ''], ['5816', '7005.21.10', '- - - Optical glass, not optically worked', '5%', 'E5'], ['5817', '7005.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7005.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5818', '7005.29.10', '- - - Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5819', '7005.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5820', '7005.30.00', '- Wired glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.06', 'Glass of heading 70.03, 70.04 or 70.05,\nbent, edge-worked, engraved, drilled,\nenamelled or otherwise worked, but not\nframed or fitted with other materials.', '', ''], ['5821', '7006.00.10', '- Optical glass, not optically worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5822', '7006.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.07', 'Safety glass, consisting of toughened\n(tempered) or laminated glass.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Toughened (tempered) safety glass :', '', ''], ['', '7007.11', '- - Of size and shape suitable for\nincorporation in vehicles, aircraft,\nspacecraft or vessels :', '', ''], ['5823', '7007.11.10', '- - - Suitable for vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['5824', '7007.11.20', '- - - Suitable for aircraft or spacecraft of\nChapter 88', '0%', 'E0'], ['5825', '7007.11.30', '- - - Suitable for railway or tramway\nlocomotives or rolling stock of Chapter 86', '0%', 'E0'], ['5826', '7007.11.40', '- - - Suitable for vessels of Chapter 89', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7007.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5827', '7007.19.10', '- - - Suitable for machinery of heading\n84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['5828', '7007.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Laminated safety glass :', '', ''], ['', '7007.21', '- - Of size and shape suitable for\nincorporation in vehicles, aircraft,\nspacecraft or vessels :', '', ''], ['5829', '7007.21.10', '- - - Suitable for vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['5830', '7007.21.20', '- - - Suitable for aircraft or spacecraft of\nChapter 88', '0%', 'E0'], ['5831', '7007.21.30', '- - - Suitable for railway or tramway\nlocomotives or rolling stock of Chapter 86', '0%', 'E0'], ['5832', '7007.21.40', '- - - Suitable for vessels of Chapter 89', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7007.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5833', '7007.29.10', '- - - Suitable for machinery of heading\n84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['5834', '7007.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5835', '7008.00.00', 'Multiple-walled insulating units of\nglass.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.09', 'Glass mirrors, whether or not framed,\nincluding rear-view mirrors.', '', ''], ['5836', '7009.10.00', '- Rear-view mirrors for vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5837', '7009.91.00', '- - Unframed', '0%', 'E0'], ['5838', '7009.92.00', '- - Framed', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.10', 'Carboys, bottles, flasks, jars, pots,\nphials, ampoules and other containers,\nof glass, of a kind used for the\nconveyance or packing of goods;\npreserving jars of glass; stoppers, lids\nand other closures, of glass.', '', ''], ['5839', '7010.10.00', '- Ampoules', '0%', 'E0'], ['5840', '7010.20.00', '- Stoppers, lids and other closures', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7010.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5841', '7010.90.10', '- - Carboys and demijohns', '0%', 'E0'], ['5842', '7010.90.40', '- - Bottles and phials, of a kind used for\nantibiotics, serums and other injectable\nliquids; bottles of a kind used for\nintravenous fluids', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5843', '7010.90.91', '- - - Of a capacity exceeding 1 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['5844', '7010.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.11', 'Glass envelopes (including bulbs and\ntubes), open, and glass parts thereof,\nwithout fittings, for electric lamps,\ncathode-ray tubes or the like.', '', ''], ['', '7011.10', '- For electric lighting :', '', ''], ['5845', '7011.10.10', '- - Stems', '0%', 'E0'], ['5846', '7011.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5847', '7011.20.00', '- For cathode-ray tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5848', '7011.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.13', 'Glassware of a kind used for table,\nkitchen, toilet, office, indoor decoration\nor similar purposes (other than that of\nheading 70.10 or 70.18).', '', ''], ['5849', '7013.10.00', '- Of glass-ceramics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Stemware drinking glasses, other than of\nglass-ceramics :', '', ''], ['5850', '7013.22.00', '- - Of lead crystal', '0%', 'E0'], ['5851', '7013.28.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other drinking glasses, other than of\nglass ceramics :', '', ''], ['5852', '7013.33.00', '- - Of lead crystal', '0%', 'E0'], ['5853', '7013.37.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Glassware of a kind used for table (other\nthan drinking glasses) or kitchen\npurposes, other than of glass-ceramics :', '', ''], ['5854', '7013.41.00', '- - Of lead crystal', '0%', 'E0'], ['5855', '7013.42.00', '- - Of glass having a linear coefficient of\nexpansion not exceeding 5 x 10-6 per\nKelvin within a temperature range of 0 °C\nto 300 °C', '0%', 'E0'], ['5856', '7013.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other glassware :', '', ''], ['5857', '7013.91.00', '- - Of lead crystal', '0%', 'E0'], ['5858', '7013.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.14', 'Signalling glassware and optical\nelements of glass (other than those of\nheading 70.15), not optically worked.', '', ''], ['5859', '7014.00.10', '- Of a kind suitable for use in motor\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['5860', '7014.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.15', 'Clock or watch glasses and similar\nglasses, glasses for non-corrective or\ncorrective spectacles, curved, bent,\nhollowed or the like, not optically\nworked; hollow glass spheres and their\nsegments, for the manufacture of such\nglasses.', '', ''], ['5861', '7015.10.00', '- Glasses for corrective spectacles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7015.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5862', '7015.90.10', '- - Clock or watch glasses', '0%', 'E0'], ['5863', '7015.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.16', 'Paving blocks, slabs, bricks, squares,\ntiles and other articles of pressed or\nmoulded glass, whether or not wired, of\na kind used for building or construction\npurposes; glass cubes and other glass\nsmallwares, whether or not on a\nbacking, for mosaics or similar\ndecorative purposes; leaded lights and\nthe like; multicellular or foam glass in\nblocks, panels, plates, shells or similar\nforms.', '', ''], ['5864', '7016.10.00', '- Glass cubes and other glass smallwares,\nwhether or not on a backing, for mosaics\nor similar decorative purposes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5865', '7016.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.17', 'Laboratory, hygienic or\npharmaceutical glassware, whether or\nnot graduated or calibrated.', '', ''], ['', '7017.10', '- Of fused quartz or other fused silica :', '', ''], ['5866', '7017.10.10', '- - Quartz reactor tubes and holders\ndesigned for insertion into diffusion and\noxidation furnaces for production of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['5867', '7017.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5868', '7017.20.00', '- Of other glass having a linear coefficient\nof expansion not exceeding 5 x 10-6 per\nKelvin within a temperature range of 0 °C\nto 300 °C', '0%', 'E0'], ['5869', '7017.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.18', 'Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation\nprecious or semi-precious stones and\nsimilar glass smallwares, and articles\nthereof other than imitation jewellery;\nglass eyes other than prosthetic articles;\nstatuettes and other ornaments of\nlamp-worked glass, other than', '', ''], ['', '', 'imitation jewellery; glass microspheres\nnot exceeding 1 mm in diameter.', '', ''], ['', '7018.10', '- Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation\nprecious or semi-precious stones and\nsimilar glass smallwares :', '', ''], ['5870', '7018.10.10', '- - Glass beads', '0%', 'E0'], ['5871', '7018.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5872', '7018.20.00', '- Glass microspheres not exceeding 1 mm\nin diameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7018.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5873', '7018.90.10', '- - Glass eyes', '0%', 'E0'], ['5874', '7018.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.19', 'Glass fibres (including glass wool) and\narticles thereof (for example, yarn,\nwoven fabrics).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Slivers, rovings, yarn and chopped\nstrands :', '', ''], ['5875', '7019.11.00', '- - Chopped strands, of a length of not\nmore than 50 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['5876', '7019.12.00', '- - Rovings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7019.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5877', '7019.19.10', '- - - Yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['5878', '7019.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Thin sheets (voiles), webs, mats,\nmattresses, boards and similar nonwoven\nproducts :', '', ''], ['5879', '7019.31.00', '- - Mats', '0%', 'E0'], ['5880', '7019.32.00', '- - Thin sheets (voiles)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7019.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5881', '7019.39.10', '- - - Asphalt or coal-tar impregnated\nglass-fibre outerwrap of a kind used for\npipelines', '0%', 'E0'], ['5882', '7019.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5883', '7019.40.00', '- Woven fabrics of rovings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other woven fabrics :', '', ''], ['5884', '7019.51.00', '- - Of a width not exceeding 30 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['5885', '7019.52.00', '- - Of a width exceeding 30 cm, plain\nweave, weighing less than 250 g/m2, of\nfilaments measuring per single yarn not\nmore than 136 tex', '0%', 'E0'], ['5886', '7019.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7019.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5887', '7019.90.10', '- - Glass fibres (including glass wool)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5888', '7019.90.20', '- - Blinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['5889', '7019.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '70.20', 'Other articles of glass.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Glass moulds :', '', ''], ['5890', '7020.00.11', '- - Of a kind used for the manufacture of\nacrylic goods', '0%', 'E0'], ['5891', '7020.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5892', '7020.00.20', '- Quartz reactor tubes and holders\ndesigned for insertion into diffusion and\noxidation furnaces for production of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['5893', '7020.00.30', '- Glass inners for vacuum flasks or other\nvacuum vessels', '0%', 'E0'], ['5894', '7020.00.40', '- Evacuated tubes for solar energy\ncollectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['5895', '7020.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nNATURAL OR CULTURED PEARLS\nAND PRECIOUS OR SEMI-\nPRECIOUS STONES', '', ''], ['', '71.01', 'Pearls, natural or cultured, whether or\nnot worked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; pearls, natural or\ncultured, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', '', ''], ['5896', '7101.10.00', '- Natural pearls', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Cultured pearls :', '', ''], ['5897', '7101.21.00', '- - Unworked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5898', '7101.22.00', '- - Worked', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '71.02', 'Diamonds, whether or not worked, but\nnot mounted or set.', '', ''], ['5899', '7102.10.00', '- Unsorted', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Industrial :', '', ''], ['5900', '7102.21.00', '- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or\nbruted', '0%', 'E0'], ['5901', '7102.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Non-industrial :', '', ''], ['5902', '7102.31.00', '- - Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or\nbruted', '0%', 'E0'], ['5903', '7102.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.03', 'Precious stones (other than diamonds)\nand semi-precious stones, whether or\nnot worked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; ungraded precious\nstones (other than diamonds) and semi-\nprecious stones, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', '', ''], ['', '7103.10', '- Unworked or simply sawn or roughly\nshaped :', '', ''], ['5904', '7103.10.10', '- - Rubies', '0%', 'E0'], ['5905', '7103.10.20', '- - Jade (nephrite and jadeite)', '0%', 'E0'], ['5906', '7103.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Otherwise worked :', '', ''], ['', '7103.91', '- - Rubies, sapphires and emeralds :', '', ''], ['5907', '7103.91.10', '- - - Rubies', '0%', 'E0'], ['5908', '7103.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5909', '7103.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.04', 'Synthetic or reconstructed precious or\nsemi-precious stones, whether or not\nworked or graded but not strung,\nmounted or set; ungraded synthetic or\nreconstructed precious or semi-\nprecious stones, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', '', ''], ['', '7104.10', '- Piezo-electric quartz :', '', ''], ['5910', '7104.10.10', '- - Unworked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5911', '7104.10.20', '- - Worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['5912', '7104.20.00', '- Other, unworked or simply sawn or\nroughly shaped', '0%', 'E0'], ['5913', '7104.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.05', 'Dust and powder of natural or\nsynthetic precious or semi-precious\nstones.', '', ''], ['5914', '7105.10.00', '- Of diamonds', '0%', 'E0'], ['5915', '7105.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nPRECIOUS METALS AND METALS\nCLAD WITH PRECIOUS METAL', '', ''], ['', '71.06', 'Silver (including silver plated with gold\nor platinum), unwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform.', '', ''], ['5916', '7106.10.00', '- Powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5917', '7106.91.00', '- - Unwrought', '0%', 'E0'], ['5918', '7106.92.00', '- - Semi-manufactured', '0%', 'E0'], ['5919', '7107.00.00', 'Base metals clad with silver, not further\nworked than semi-manufactured.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.08', 'Gold (including gold plated with\nplatinum) unwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Non-monetary :', '', ''], ['5920', '7108.11.00', '- - Powder', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7108.12', '- - Other unwrought forms :', '', ''], ['5921', '7108.12.10', '- - - In lumps, ingots or cast bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['5922', '7108.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5923', '7108.13.00', '- - Other semi-manufactured forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['5924', '7108.20.00', '- Monetary', '0%', 'E0'], ['5925', '7109.00.00', 'Base metals or silver, clad with gold,\nnot further worked than semi-\nmanufactured.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.10', 'Platinum, unwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Platinum :', '', ''], ['', '7110.11', '- - Unwrought or in powder form :', '', ''], ['5926', '7110.11.10', '- - - In lumps, ingots, cast bars or in', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'powder form', '', ''], ['5927', '7110.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5928', '7110.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Palladium :', '', ''], ['', '7110.21', '- - Unwrought or in powder form :', '', ''], ['5929', '7110.21.10', '- - - In lumps, ingots, cast bars or in\npowder form', '0%', 'E0'], ['5930', '7110.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5931', '7110.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Rhodium :', '', ''], ['', '7110.31', '- - Unwrought or in powder form :', '', ''], ['5932', '7110.31.10', '- - - In lumps, ingots, cast bars or in\npowder form', '0%', 'E0'], ['5933', '7110.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5934', '7110.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Iridium, osmium and ruthenium :', '', ''], ['', '7110.41', '- - Unwrought or in powder form :', '', ''], ['5935', '7110.41.10', '- - - In lumps, ingots, cast bars or in\npowder form', '0%', 'E0'], ['5936', '7110.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5937', '7110.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.11', 'Base metals, silver or gold, clad with\nplatinum, not further worked than\nsemi-manufactured.', '', ''], ['5938', '7111.00.10', '- Silver or gold, clad with platinum', '0%', 'E0'], ['5939', '7111.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.12', 'Waste and scrap of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal; other\nwaste and scrap containing precious\nmetal or precious metal compounds, of\na kind used principally for the recovery\nof precious metal.', '', ''], ['5940', '7112.30.00', '- Ash containing precious metal or\nprecious metal compounds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5941', '7112.91.00', '- - Of gold, including metal clad with gold\nbut excluding sweepings containing other\nprecious metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['5942', '7112.92.00', '- - Of platinum, including metal clad with\nplatinum but excluding sweepings\ncontaining other precious metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7112.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5943', '7112.99.10', '- - - Of silver, including metal clad with\nsilver but excluding sweepings containing\nother precious metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['5944', '7112.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', "SUB-CHAPTER III\nJEWELLERY, GOLDSMITHS' AND\nSILVERSMITHS’ WARES AND\nOTHER ARTICLES", '', ''], ['', '71.13', 'Articles of jewellery and parts thereof,\nof precious metal or of metal clad with', '', ''], ['', '', 'precious metal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of precious metal whether or not plated\nor clad with precious metal :', '', ''], ['', '7113.11', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad\nwith other precious metal :', '', ''], ['5945', '7113.11.10', '- - - Parts', '5%', 'E0'], ['5946', '7113.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7113.19', '- - Of other precious metal, whether or not\nplated or clad with precious metal :', '', ''], ['5947', '7113.19.10', '- - - Parts', '5%', 'E0'], ['5948', '7113.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7113.20', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal :', '', ''], ['5949', '7113.20.10', '- - Parts', '5%', 'E0'], ['5950', '7113.20.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '71.14', 'Articles of goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’\nwares and parts thereof, of precious\nmetal or of metal clad with precious\nmetal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of precious metal whether or not plated\nor clad with precious metal :', '', ''], ['5951', '7114.11.00', '- - Of silver, whether or not plated or clad\nwith other precious metal', '5%', 'E0'], ['5952', '7114.19.00', '- - Of other precious metal, whether or not\nplated or clad with precious metal', '5%', 'E0'], ['5953', '7114.20.00', '- Of base metal clad with precious metal', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '71.15', 'Other articles of precious metal or of\nmetal clad with precious metal.', '', ''], ['5954', '7115.10.00', '- Catalysts in the form of wire cloth or\ngrill, of platinum', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7115.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5955', '7115.90.10', '- - Of gold or silver', '0%', 'E0'], ['5956', '7115.90.20', '- - Of metal clad with gold or silver', '0%', 'E0'], ['5957', '7115.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.16', 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls,\nprecious or semi-precious stones\n(natural, synthetic or reconstructed).', '', ''], ['5958', '7116.10.00', '- Of natural or cultured pearls', '5%', 'E0'], ['5959', '7116.20.00', '- Of precious or semi-precious stones\n(natural, synthetic or reconstructed)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.17', 'Imitation jewellery.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of base metal, whether or not plated\nwith precious metal :', '', ''], ['', '7117.11', '- - Cuff-links and studs :', '', ''], ['5960', '7117.11.10', '- - - Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['5961', '7117.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7117.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['5962', '7117.19.10', '- - - Bangles', '5%', 'E0'], ['5963', '7117.19.20', '- - - Other imitation jewellery', '5%', 'E0'], ['5964', '7117.19.90', '- - - Parts', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7117.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Bangles :', '', ''], ['5965', '7117.90.11', '- - - Wholly of plastics or glass', '5%', 'E0'], ['5966', '7117.90.12', '- - - Wholly of wood, worked tortoise\nshell, ivory, bone, horn, coral, mother-of-\npearl and other animal carving material,\nworked vegetable carving material or\nworked mineral carving material', '5%', 'E0'], ['5967', '7117.90.13', '- - - Wholly of porcelain or china', '5%', 'E0'], ['5968', '7117.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other imitation jewellery :', '', ''], ['5969', '7117.90.21', '- - - Wholly of plastics or glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['5970', '7117.90.22', '- - - Wholly of wood, worked tortoise\nshell, ivory, bone, horn, coral, mother-of-\npearl and other animal carving material,\nworked vegetable carving material or\nworked mineral carving material', '0%', 'E0'], ['5971', '7117.90.23', '- - - Wholly of porcelain or china', '0%', 'E0'], ['5972', '7117.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['5973', '7117.90.91', '- - - Wholly of plastics or glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['5974', '7117.90.92', '- - - Wholly of wood, worked tortoise\nshell, ivory, bone, horn, coral, mother-of-\npearl and other animal carving material,\nworked vegetable carving material or\nworked mineral carving material', '0%', 'E0'], ['5975', '7117.90.93', '- - - Wholly of porcelain or china', '0%', 'E0'], ['5976', '7117.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '71.18', 'Coin.', '', ''], ['', '7118.10', '- Coin (other than gold coin), not being\nlegal tender :', '', ''], ['5977', '7118.10.10', '- - Silver coin', '0%', 'E0'], ['5978', '7118.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7118.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5979', '7118.90.10', '- - Gold coin, whether or not legal tender', '0%', 'E0'], ['5980', '7118.90.20', '- - Silver coin, being legal tender', '0%', 'E0'], ['5981', '7118.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER I\nPRIMARY MATERIALS;\nPRODUCTS IN GRANULAR OR\nPOWDER FORM', '', ''], ['', '72.01', 'Pig iron and, spiegeleisen in pigs,\nblocks or other primary forms.', '', ''], ['5982', '7201.10.00', '- Non-alloy pig iron containing by weight\n0.5 % or less of phosphorus', '0%', 'E0'], ['5983', '7201.20.00', '- Non-alloy pig iron containing by weight\nmore than 0.5 % of phosphorus', '0%', 'E0'], ['5984', '7201.50.00', '- Alloy pig iron; spiegeleisen', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.02', 'Ferro-alloys.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Ferro-manganese :', '', ''], ['5985', '7202.11.00', '- - Containing by weight more than 2 %\nof carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['5986', '7202.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ferro-silicon :', '', ''], ['5987', '7202.21.00', '- - Containing by weight more than 55 %\nof silicon', '0%', 'E0'], ['5988', '7202.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5989', '7202.30.00', '- Ferro-silico-manganese', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ferro-chromium :', '', ''], ['5990', '7202.41.00', '- - Containing by weight more than 4 %\nof carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['5991', '7202.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['5992', '7202.50.00', '- Ferro-silico-chromium', '0%', 'E0'], ['5993', '7202.60.00', '- Ferro-nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['5994', '7202.70.00', '- Ferro-molybdenum', '0%', 'E0'], ['5995', '7202.80.00', '- Ferro-tungsten and ferro-silico-tungsten', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['5996', '7202.91.00', '- - Ferro-titanium and ferro-silico-\ntitanium', '0%', 'E0'], ['5997', '7202.92.00', '- - Ferro-vanadium', '0%', 'E0'], ['5998', '7202.93.00', '- - Ferro-niobium', '0%', 'E0'], ['5999', '7202.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.03', 'Ferrous products obtained by direct\nreduction of iron ore and other spongy\nferrous products, in lumps, pellets or\nsimilar forms; iron having a minimum\npurity by weight of 99.94 %, in lumps,\npellets or similar forms.', '', ''], ['6000', '7203.10.00', '- Ferrous products obtained by direct\nreduction of iron ore', '0%', 'E0'], ['6001', '7203.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.04', 'Ferrous waste and scrap; remelting\nscrap ingots of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['6002', '7204.10.00', '- Waste and scrap of cast iron', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Waste and scrap of alloy steel :', '', ''], ['6003', '7204.21.00', '- - Of stainless steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6004', '7204.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6005', '7204.30.00', '- Waste and scrap of tinned iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other waste and scrap :', '', ''], ['6006', '7204.41.00', '- - Turnings, shavings, chips, milling\nwaste, sawdust, filings, trimmings and\nstampings, whether or not in bundles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6007', '7204.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6008', '7204.50.00', '- Remelting scrap ingots', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.05', 'Granules and powders, of pig iron,\nspiegeleisen, iron or steel.', '', ''], ['6009', '7205.10.00', '- Granules', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Powders :', '', ''], ['6010', '7205.21.00', '- - Of alloy steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6011', '7205.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER II\nIRON AND NON-ALLOY STEEL', '', ''], ['', '72.06', 'Iron and non-alloy steel in ingots or\nother primary forms (excluding iron of\nheading 72.03).', '', ''], ['', '7206.10', '- Ingots :', '', ''], ['6012', '7206.10.10', '- - Containing by weight more than 0.6 %\nof carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['6013', '7206.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6014', '7206.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.07', 'Semi-finished products of iron or non-\nalloy steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6015', '7207.11.00', '- - Of rectangular (including square)\ncross-section, the width measuring less\nthan twice the thickness', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7207.12', '- - Other, of rectangular (other than\nsquare) cross-section :', '', ''], ['6016', '7207.12.10', '- - - Slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['6017', '7207.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6018', '7207.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7207.20', '- Containing by weight 0.25 % or more of\ncarbon :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6019', '7207.20.10', '- - - Slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6020', '7207.20.21', '- - - - Blocks roughly shaped by forging;\nsheet bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['6021', '7207.20.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6022', '7207.20.91', '- - - Slabs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6023', '7207.20.92', '- - - - Blocks roughly shaped by forging;\nsheet bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['6024', '7207.20.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.08', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-\nalloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or\nmore, hot-rolled, not clad, plated or\ncoated.', '', ''], ['6025', '7208.10.00', '- In coils, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, with patterns in relief', '3%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Other, in coils, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, pickled :', '', ''], ['6026', '7208.25.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6027', '7208.26.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7208.27', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a thickness of less than 2 mm :', '', ''], ['6028', '7208.27.11', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6029', '7208.27.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6030', '7208.27.91', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6031', '7208.27.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Other, in coils, not further worked than\nhot-rolled :', '', ''], ['6032', '7208.36.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6033', '7208.37.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 10 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6034', '7208.38.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '7208.39', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm :', '', ''], ['6035', '7208.39.10', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 0.17 mm\nor less', '5%', 'E7'], ['6036', '7208.39.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['6037', '7208.40.00', '- Not in coils, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, with patterns in relief', '3%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Other, not in coils, not further worked\nthan hot-rolled :', '', ''], ['6038', '7208.51.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', '3%', 'EX*'], ['6039', '7208.52.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 10 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6040', '7208.53.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7208.54', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm :', '', ''], ['6041', '7208.54.10', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 0.17 mm\nor less', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6042', '7208.54.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7208.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6043', '7208.90.10', '- - Corrugated', '3%', 'EX*'], ['6044', '7208.90.20', '- - Other, containing by weight less than\n0.6 % of carbon and of a thickness of 0.17\nmm or less', '3%', 'EX*'], ['6045', '7208.90.90', '- - Other', '3%', 'EX*'], ['', '72.09', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-\nalloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or\nmore, cold-rolled (cold-reduced), not\nclad, plated or coated.', '', ''], ['', '', '- In coils, not further worked than cold-\nrolled (cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6046', '7209.15.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more', '10%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.16', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but\nless than 3 mm :', '', ''], ['6047', '7209.16.10', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 1,250 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6048', '7209.16.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.17', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 1 mm :', '', ''], ['6049', '7209.17.10', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 1,250 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6050', '7209.17.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.18', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm :', '', ''], ['6051', '7209.18.10', '- - - Tin-mill blackplate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6052', '7209.18.91', '- - - - Containing by weight less than\n0.6 % of carbon and of a thickness of 0.17', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', 'mm or less', '', ''], ['6053', '7209.18.99', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Not in coils, not further worked than\ncold-rolled (cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6054', '7209.25.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.26', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but\nless than 3 mm :', '', ''], ['6055', '7209.26.10', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 1,250 mm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6056', '7209.26.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.27', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 1 mm :', '', ''], ['6057', '7209.27.10', '- - - Of a width not exceeding 1,250 mm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6058', '7209.27.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.28', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm :', '', ''], ['6059', '7209.28.10', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 0.17 mm\nor less', '5%', 'EX'], ['6060', '7209.28.90', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '7209.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6061', '7209.90.10', '- - Corrugated', '5%', 'E10'], ['6062', '7209.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '72.10', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-\nalloy steel, of a width of 600 mm or\nmore, clad, plated or coated.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Plated or coated with tin :', '', ''], ['', '7210.11', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more :', '', ''], ['6063', '7210.11.10', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '13%', 'E10'], ['6064', '7210.11.90', '- - - Other', '13%', 'E10'], ['', '7210.12', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm :', '', ''], ['6065', '7210.12.10', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['6066', '7210.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7210.20', '- Plated or coated with lead, including\nterne-plate :', '', ''], ['6067', '7210.20.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 1.5 mm or\nless', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6068', '7210.20.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '7210.30', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with\nzinc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6069', '7210.30.11', '- - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6070', '7210.30.12', '- - - Of a thickness exceeding 1.2 mm but\nnot exceeding 1.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6071', '7210.30.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6072', '7210.30.91', '- - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6073', '7210.30.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Otherwise plated or coated with zinc :', '', ''], ['', '7210.41', '- - Corrugated :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6074', '7210.41.11', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '8%', 'E15'], ['6075', '7210.41.12', '- - - - Of a thickness exceeding 1.2 mm\nbut not exceeding 1.5 mm', '8%', 'E15'], ['6076', '7210.41.19', '- - - - Other', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6077', '7210.41.91', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '8%', 'E15'], ['6078', '7210.41.99', '- - - - Other', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '7210.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6079', '7210.49.11', '- - - - Coated with zinc by the iron-zinc\nalloyed coating method, containing by\nweight less than 0.04 % of carbon and of\na thickness not exceeding 1.2 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6080', '7210.49.12', '- - - - Other, of a thickness not exceeding\n1.2 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6081', '7210.49.13', '- - - - Of a thickness exceeding 1.2 mm\nbut not exceeding 1.5 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6082', '7210.49.19', '- - - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6083', '7210.49.91', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6084', '7210.49.99', '- - - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['6085', '7210.50.00', '- Plated or coated with chromium oxides\nor with chromium and chromium oxides', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Plated or coated with aluminium :', '', ''], ['', '7210.61', '- - Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc\nalloys :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6086', '7210.61.11', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6087', '7210.61.12', '- - - - Of a thickness exceeding 1.2 mm\nbut not exceeding 1.5 mm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6088', '7210.61.19', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6089', '7210.61.91', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6090', '7210.61.92', '- - - - Other, corrugated', '6%', 'EX'], ['6091', '7210.61.99', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '7210.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6092', '7210.69.11', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6093', '7210.69.12', '- - - - Of a thickness exceeding 1.2 mm\nbut not exceeding 1.5 mm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6094', '7210.69.19', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6095', '7210.69.91', '- - - - Of a thickness not exceeding 1.2\nmm', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6096', '7210.69.99', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '7210.70', '- Painted, varnished or coated with\nplastics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 1.5 mm or\nless :', '', ''], ['6097', '7210.70.11', '- - - Painted', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6098', '7210.70.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6099', '7210.70.91', '- - - Painted', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6100', '7210.70.99', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '7210.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6101', '7210.90.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon and of a thickness of 1.5 mm or\nless', '15%', 'EX'], ['6102', '7210.90.90', '- - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '72.11', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-\nalloy steel, of a width of less than 600\nmm, not clad, plated or coated.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not further worked than hot-rolled :', '', ''], ['', '7211.13', '- - Rolled on four faces or in a closed box\npass, of a width exceeding 150 mm and a\nthickness of not less than 4 mm, not in\ncoils and without patterns in relief :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6103', '7211.13.11', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6104', '7211.13.12', '- - - - Corrugated', '3%', 'E10'], ['6105', '7211.13.19', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6106', '7211.13.91', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6107', '7211.13.99', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '7211.14', '- - Other, of a thickness of 4.75 mm or\nmore :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6108', '7211.14.13', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6109', '7211.14.14', '- - - - Corrugated', '3%', 'E10'], ['6110', '7211.14.15', '- - - - Coils for re-rolling', '3%', 'E10'], ['6111', '7211.14.19', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6112', '7211.14.91', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6113', '7211.14.92', '- - - - Corrugated', '3%', 'E10'], ['6114', '7211.14.93', '- - - - Coils for re-rolling', '3%', 'E10'], ['6115', '7211.14.99', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '7211.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6116', '7211.19.13', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6117', '7211.19.14', '- - - - Corrugated', '3%', 'E10'], ['6118', '7211.19.15', '- - - - Coils for re-rolling', '3%', 'E10'], ['6119', '7211.19.19', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6120', '7211.19.91', '- - - - Hoop and strip; universal plates', '3%', 'E10'], ['6121', '7211.19.92', '- - - - Corrugated', '3%', 'E10'], ['6122', '7211.19.93', '- - - - Coils for re-rolling', '3%', 'E10'], ['6123', '7211.19.99', '- - - - Other', '3%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Not further worked than cold-rolled\n(cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['', '7211.23', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6124', '7211.23.10', '- - - Corrugated', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6125', '7211.23.20', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6126', '7211.23.30', '- - - Other, of a thickness of 0.17 mm or\nless', '5%', 'EX'], ['6127', '7211.23.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7211.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6128', '7211.29.10', '- - - Corrugated', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6129', '7211.29.20', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6130', '7211.29.30', '- - - Other, of a thickness of 0.17 mm or\nless', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6131', '7211.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7211.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6132', '7211.90.11', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '5%', 'EX'], ['6133', '7211.90.12', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width exceeding\n400 mm', '5%', 'EX'], ['6134', '7211.90.13', '- - - Corrugated', '5%', 'EX'], ['6135', '7211.90.14', '- - - Other, of a thickness of 0.17 mm or\nless', '5%', 'EX'], ['6136', '7211.90.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6137', '7211.90.91', '- - - Of a thickness of 0.17 mm or less', '5%', 'EX'], ['6138', '7211.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '72.12', 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-\nalloy steel, of a width of less than 600\nmm, clad, plated or coated.', '', ''], ['', '7212.10', '- Plated or coated with tin :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6139', '7212.10.11', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '8%', 'EX'], ['6140', '7212.10.13', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width exceeding\n25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6141', '7212.10.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6142', '7212.10.92', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '8%', 'EX'], ['6143', '7212.10.93', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width exceeding\n25 mm but not exceeding 400 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6144', '7212.10.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '7212.20', '- Electrolytically plated or coated with\nzinc :', '', ''], ['6145', '7212.20.10', '- - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '15%', 'EX'], ['6146', '7212.20.20', '- - Other, containing by weight less than\n0.6 % of carbon and of a thickness of 1.5\nmm or less', '15%', 'EX'], ['6147', '7212.20.90', '- - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '7212.30', '- Otherwise plated or coated with zinc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6148', '7212.30.11', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6149', '7212.30.12', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width exceeding\n25 mm and not exceeding 400 mm', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6150', '7212.30.13', '- - - Other, of a thickness of 1.5 mm or\nless', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6151', '7212.30.14', '- - - Other, coated with zinc by the iron-\nzinc alloy coating method, containing by\nweight less than 0.04 % of carbon', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6152', '7212.30.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6153', '7212.30.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '7212.40', '- Painted, varnished or coated with\nplastics :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6154', '7212.40.11', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '6%', 'EX'], ['6155', '7212.40.12', '- - - Other hoop and strip', '8%', 'EX'], ['6156', '7212.40.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6157', '7212.40.91', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '6%', 'EX'], ['6158', '7212.40.92', '- - - Other hoop and strip; universal plates', '8%', 'EX'], ['6159', '7212.40.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '7212.50', '- Otherwise plated or coated :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Plated or coated with chromium oxides\nor with chromium and chromium oxides :', '', ''], ['6160', '7212.50.13', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '8%', 'EX'], ['6161', '7212.50.14', '- - - Other hoop and strip; universal plates', '8%', 'EX*'], ['6162', '7212.50.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc\nalloys :', '', ''], ['6163', '7212.50.23', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '6%', 'EX'], ['6164', '7212.50.24', '- - - Other hoop and strip; universal plates', '7%', 'EX'], ['6165', '7212.50.29', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6166', '7212.50.93', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 25 mm', '5%', 'EX'], ['6167', '7212.50.94', '- - - Other hoop and strip; universal plates', '8%', 'EX'], ['6168', '7212.50.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX*'], ['', '7212.60', '- Clad :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6169', '7212.60.11', '- - - Hoop and strip', '8%', 'EX'], ['6170', '7212.60.12', '- - - Other, of a thickness of 1.5 mm or\nless', '8%', 'EX'], ['6171', '7212.60.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6172', '7212.60.91', '- - - Hoop and strip', '8%', 'EX'], ['6173', '7212.60.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'EX'], ['', '72.13', 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly\nwound coils, of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', ''], ['', '7213.10', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or\nother deformations produced during the\nrolling process :', '', ''], ['6174', '7213.10.10', '- - Of circular cross-section measuring not\nexceeding 50 mm in diameter', '6%', 'E10'], ['6175', '7213.10.90', '- - Other', '6%', 'E10'], ['6176', '7213.20.00', '- Other, of free-cutting steel', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7213.91', '- - Of circular cross-section measuring\nless than 14 mm in diameter :', '', ''], ['6177', '7213.91.10', '- - - Of a kind used for producing\nsoldering sticks', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6178', '7213.91.20', '- - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6179', '7213.91.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7213.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6180', '7213.99.10', '- - - Of a kind used for producing\nsoldering sticks', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6181', '7213.99.20', '- - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6182', '7213.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '72.14', 'Other bars and rods of iron or non-\nalloy steel, not further worked than\nforged, hot-rolled, hot-drawn or hot-\nextructed, but including those twisted\nafter rolling.', '', ''], ['', '7214.10', '- Forged :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6183', '7214.10.11', '- - - Of circular cross-section', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6184', '7214.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6185', '7214.10.21', '- - - Of circular cross-section', '5%', 'E10'], ['6186', '7214.10.29', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '7214.20', '- Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or\nother deformations produced during the\nrolling process or twisted after rolling :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of circular cross-section :', '', ''], ['6187', '7214.20.31', '- - - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '6%', 'EX'], ['6188', '7214.20.39', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6189', '7214.20.41', '- - - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '6%', 'E10'], ['6190', '7214.20.49', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of circular cross-section :', '', ''], ['6191', '7214.20.51', '- - - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '6%', 'EX'], ['6192', '7214.20.59', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6193', '7214.20.61', '- - - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '6%', 'E10'], ['6194', '7214.20.69', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'E10'], ['', '7214.30', '- Other, of free-cutting steel :', '', ''], ['6195', '7214.30.10', '- - Of circular cross section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6196', '7214.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7214.91', '- - Of rectangular (other than square)\ncross-section :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6197', '7214.91.11', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.38 % or\nmore of carbon and less than 1.15 % of\nmanganese', '3%', 'EX*'], ['6198', '7214.91.12', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.17 % or\nmore but not more than 0.46 % of carbon\nand 1.2 % or more but less than 1.65 % of\nmanganese', '3%', 'EX*'], ['6199', '7214.91.19', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6200', '7214.91.21', '- - - - Containing by weight less than\n1.15 % of manganese', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6201', '7214.91.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '7214.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon, other than of circular cross-\nsection :', '', ''], ['6202', '7214.99.11', '- - - - Containing by weight less than\n1.15 % of manganese', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6203', '7214.99.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6204', '7214.99.91', '- - - - Containing by weight less than\n0.38 % of carbon, not more than 0.05 %\nof phosphorus and not more than 0.05 %\nof sulphur', '6%', 'EX*'], ['6205', '7214.99.92', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.38 % or\nmore of carbon and less than 1.15 % of\nmanganese', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6206', '7214.99.93', '- - - - Containing by weight 0.17 % or\nmore but less than 0.46 % of carbon and\n1.2 % or more but less than 1.65 % of\nmanganese', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6207', '7214.99.99', '- - - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '72.15', 'Other bars and rods of iron or non-\nalloy steel.', '', ''], ['', '7215.10', '- Of free-cutting steel, not further worked\nthan cold-formed or cold-finished :', '', ''], ['6208', '7215.10.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6209', '7215.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '7215.50', '- Other, not further worked than cold-\nformed or cold-finished :', '', ''], ['6210', '7215.50.10', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon, other than of circular cross-\nsection', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6211', '7215.50.91', '- - - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '6%', 'EX'], ['6212', '7215.50.99', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '7215.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6213', '7215.90.10', '- - Of a kind used for concrete\nreinforcement (rebars)', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6214', '7215.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.16', 'Angles, shapes and sections of iron or\nnon-alloy steel.', '', ''], ['6215', '7216.10.00', '- U, I or H sections, not further worked\nthan hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of\na height of less than 80 mm', '20%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- L or T sections, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a\nheight of less than 80 mm :', '', ''], ['', '7216.21', '- - L sections :', '', ''], ['6216', '7216.21.10', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon', '20%', 'EX'], ['6217', '7216.21.90', '- - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['6218', '7216.22.00', '- - T sections', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- U, I or H sections, not further worked\nthan hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded of\na height of 80 mm or more :', '', ''], ['', '7216.31', '- - U sections :', '', ''], ['6219', '7216.31.10', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '10%', 'EX'], ['6220', '7216.31.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '7216.32', '- - I sections :', '', ''], ['6221', '7216.32.10', '- - - Of a thickness of 5 mm or less', '20%', 'EX'], ['6222', '7216.32.90', '- - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['', '7216.33', '- - H sections :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Containing by weight less than 0.6 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6223', '7216.33.11', '- - - - Thickness of the flange not less than\nthickness of the web', '20%', 'EX'], ['6224', '7216.33.19', '- - - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['6225', '7216.33.90', '- - - Other', '20%', 'EX'], ['', '7216.40', '- L or T sections, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a\nheight of 80 mm or more :', '', ''], ['6226', '7216.40.10', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon', '10%', 'EX'], ['6227', '7216.40.90', '- - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '7216.50', '- Other angles, shapes and sections, not\nfurther worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn\nor extruded :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a height of less than 80 mm :', '', ''], ['6228', '7216.50.11', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '15%', 'EX'], ['6229', '7216.50.19', '- - - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6230', '7216.50.91', '- - - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more\nof carbon', '15%', 'EX'], ['6231', '7216.50.99', '- - - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Angles, shapes and sections, not further\nworked than cold-formed or cold-\nfinished :', '', ''], ['6232', '7216.61.00', '- - Obtained from flat-rolled products', '10%', 'EX'], ['6233', '7216.69.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7216.91', '- - Cold-formed or cold-finished from\nflat-rolled products :', '', ''], ['6234', '7216.91.10', '- - - Angles, other than slotted angles,\ncontaining by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon', '10%', 'EX'], ['6235', '7216.91.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['6236', '7216.99.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'EX'], ['', '72.17', 'Wire of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', ''], ['', '7217.10', '- Not plated or coated, whether or not\npolished :', '', ''], ['6237', '7217.10.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\nof carbon', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.25 % or more\nbut less than 0.6 % of carbon :', '', ''], ['6238', '7217.10.22', '- - - Bead wire; reed wire; wire of a kind\nused for making strands for prestressing\nconcrete; free-cutting steel wire', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6239', '7217.10.29', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX*'], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon :', '', ''], ['6240', '7217.10.32', '- - - Spokes wire; bead wire; reed wire;\nfree-cutting steel wire', '8%', 'EX'], ['6241', '7217.10.33', '- - - Wire of a kind used for making\nstrands for prestressing concrete', '8%', 'EX'], ['6242', '7217.10.39', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7217.20', '- Plated or coated with zinc :', '', ''], ['6243', '7217.20.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\ncarbon', '5%', 'E10'], ['6244', '7217.20.20', '- - Containing by weight 0.25 % or more\nbut less than 0.45 % of carbon', '8%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.45 % or more\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6245', '7217.20.91', '- - - Steel core wire of a kind used for\nsteel reinforced aluminium conductors\n(ACSR)', '8%', 'E10'], ['6246', '7217.20.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7217.30', '- Plated or coated with other base metals :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\nof carbon :', '', ''], ['6247', '7217.30.11', '- - - Plated or coated with tin', '13%', 'E10'], ['6248', '7217.30.19', '- - - Other', '13%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.25 % or more\nof carbon but less than 0.6 % of carbon :', '', ''], ['6249', '7217.30.21', '- - - Plated or coated with tin', '13%', 'E10'], ['6250', '7217.30.29', '- - - Other', '13%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon :', '', ''], ['6251', '7217.30.33', '- - - Brass coated steel wire of a kind used\nin the manufacture of pneumatic rubber\ntyres', '0%', 'E0'], ['6252', '7217.30.34', '- - - Other copper alloy coated steel wire\nof a kind used in the manufacture of\npneumatic rubber tyres', '10%', 'EX'], ['6253', '7217.30.35', '- - - Other, plated or coated with tin', '13%', 'EX'], ['6254', '7217.30.39', '- - - Other', '13%', 'EX'], ['', '7217.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6255', '7217.90.10', '- - Containing by weight less than 0.25 %\nof carbon', '5%', 'E10'], ['6256', '7217.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER III\nSTAINLESS STEEL', '', ''], ['', '72.18', 'Stainless steel in ingots or other\nprimary forms; semi-finished products\nof stainless steel.', '', ''], ['6257', '7218.10.00', '- Ingots and other primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6258', '7218.91.00', '- - Of rectangular (other than square)\ncross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6259', '7218.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.19', 'Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of\na width of 600 mm or more.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not further worked than hot-rolled, in', '', ''], ['', '', 'coils :', '', ''], ['6260', '7219.11.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6261', '7219.12.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 10 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6262', '7219.13.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6263', '7219.14.00', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Not further worked than hot-rolled, not\nin coils :', '', ''], ['6264', '7219.21.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6265', '7219.22.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 10 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6266', '7219.23.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6267', '7219.24.00', '- - Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Not further worked than cold-rolled\n(cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6268', '7219.31.00', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6269', '7219.32.00', '- - Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but\nless than 4.75 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6270', '7219.33.00', '- - Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but\nless than 3 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6271', '7219.34.00', '- - Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but\nnot exceeding 1 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6272', '7219.35.00', '- - Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm', '10%', 'EX*'], ['6273', '7219.90.00', '- Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['', '72.20', 'Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of\na width of less than 600 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not further worked than hot-rolled :', '', ''], ['', '7220.11', '- - Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more :', '', ''], ['6274', '7220.11.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6275', '7220.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7220.12', '- - Of a thickness of less than 4.75 mm :', '', ''], ['6276', '7220.12.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6277', '7220.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7220.20', '- Not further worked than cold-rolled\n(cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6278', '7220.20.10', '- - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '10%', 'EX*'], ['6279', '7220.20.90', '- - Other', '10%', 'EX*'], ['', '7220.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6280', '7220.90.10', '- - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6281', '7220.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX*'], ['6282', '7221.00.00', 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly\nwound coils, of stainless steel.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.22', 'Other bars and rods of stainless steel;\nangles, shapes and sections of stainless\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Bars and rods, not further worked than\nhot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded :', '', ''], ['6283', '7222.11.00', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6284', '7222.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7222.20', '- Bars and rods, not further worked than\ncold-formed or cold-finished :', '', ''], ['6285', '7222.20.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6286', '7222.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7222.30', '- Other bars and rods :', '', ''], ['6287', '7222.30.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6288', '7222.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7222.40', '- Angles, shapes and sections :', '', ''], ['6289', '7222.40.10', '- - Not further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '5%', 'E10'], ['6290', '7222.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '72.23', 'Wire of stainless steel.', '', ''], ['6291', '7223.00.10', '- Of cross-section exceeding 13 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6292', '7223.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'SUB-CHAPTER IV\nOTHER ALLOY STEEL; HOLLOW\nDRILL BARS AND RODS, OF ALLOY\nOR NON- ALLOY STEEL', '', ''], ['', '72.24', 'Other alloy steel in ingots or other\nprimary forms; semi-finished products\nof other alloy steel.', '', ''], ['6293', '7224.10.00', '- Ingots and other primary forms', '0%', 'E0'], ['6294', '7224.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.25', 'Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel,\nof a width of 600 mm or more.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of silicon-electrical steel :', '', ''], ['6295', '7225.11.00', '- - Grain-oriented', '0%', 'E0'], ['6296', '7225.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7225.30', '- Other, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, in coils :', '', ''], ['6297', '7225.30.10', '- - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6298', '7225.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7225.40', '- Other, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, not in coils :', '', ''], ['6299', '7225.40.10', '- - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6300', '7225.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7225.50', '- Other, not further worked than cold-\nrolled (cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6301', '7225.50.10', '- - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6302', '7225.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7225.91', '- - Electrolytically plated or coated with\nzinc :', '', ''], ['6303', '7225.91.10', '- - - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6304', '7225.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7225.92', '- - Otherwise plated or coated with zinc :', '', ''], ['6305', '7225.92.10', '- - - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6306', '7225.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7225.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6307', '7225.99.10', '- - - Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6308', '7225.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.26', 'Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel,\nof a width of less than 600 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of silicon-electrical steel :', '', ''], ['', '7226.11', '- - Grain-oriented :', '', ''], ['6309', '7226.11.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6310', '7226.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7226.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6311', '7226.19.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6312', '7226.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7226.20', '- Of high speed steel :', '', ''], ['6313', '7226.20.10', '- - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6314', '7226.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7226.91', '- - Not further worked than hot-rolled :', '', ''], ['6315', '7226.91.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6316', '7226.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7226.92', '- - Not further worked than cold-rolled\n(cold-reduced) :', '', ''], ['6317', '7226.92.10', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6318', '7226.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7226.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Hoop and strip, of a width not\nexceeding 400 mm :', '', ''], ['6319', '7226.99.11', '- - - - Plated or coated with zinc', '0%', 'E0'], ['6320', '7226.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6321', '7226.99.91', '- - - - Plated or coated with zinc', '0%', 'E0'], ['6322', '7226.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.27', 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly\nwound coils, of other alloy steel.', '', ''], ['6323', '7227.10.00', '- Of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6324', '7227.20.00', '- Of silico-manganese steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6325', '7227.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.28', 'Other bars and rods of other alloy\nsteel; angles, shapes and sections, of\nother alloy steel; hollow drill bars and\nrods, of alloy or non-alloy steel.', '', ''], ['', '7228.10', '- Bars and rods, of high speed steel :', '', ''], ['6326', '7228.10.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6327', '7228.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.20', '- Bars and rods, of silico-manganese\nsteel :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of circular cross-section :', '', ''], ['6328', '7228.20.11', '- - - Not further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '0%', 'E0'], ['6329', '7228.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6330', '7228.20.91', '- - - Not further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '0%', 'E0'], ['6331', '7228.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.30', '- Other bars and rods, not further worked\nthan hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded :', '', ''], ['6332', '7228.30.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6333', '7228.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.40', '- Other bars and rods, not further worked\nthan forged :', '', ''], ['6334', '7228.40.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6335', '7228.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.50', '- Other bars and rods, not further worked\nthan cold-formed or cold-finished :', '', ''], ['6336', '7228.50.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6337', '7228.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.60', '- Other bars and rods :', '', ''], ['6338', '7228.60.10', '- - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6339', '7228.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7228.70', '- Angles, shapes and sections :', '', ''], ['6340', '7228.70.10', '- - Not further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded', '5%', 'E3'], ['6341', '7228.70.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '7228.80', '- Hollow drill bars and rods :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Containing by weight 0.6 % or more of\ncarbon :', '', ''], ['6342', '7228.80.11', '- - - Of circular cross-section', '0%', 'E0'], ['6343', '7228.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6344', '7228.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '72.29', 'Wire of other alloy steel.', '', ''], ['6345', '7229.20.00', '- Of silico-manganese steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7229.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6346', '7229.90.20', '- - Of cross-section not exceeding 5.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6347', '7229.90.30', '- - Other, of high speed steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6348', '7229.90.91', '- - - Containing by weight 0.5 % or more\nof chromium', '0%', 'E0'], ['6349', '7229.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.01', 'Sheet piling of iron or steel, whether or\nnot drilled, punched or made from\nassembled elements; welded angles,\nshapes and sections, of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['6350', '7301.10.00', '- Sheet piling', '0%', 'E0'], ['6351', '7301.20.00', '- Angles, shapes and sections', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '73.02', 'Railway or tramway track construction\nmaterial of iron or steel, the following :\nrails, check-rails and rack rails, switch\nblades, crossing frogs, point rods and\nother crossing pieces, sleepers (cross-\nties), fish-plates, chairs, chair wedges,\nsole plates (base plates), rail clips,\nbedplates, ties and other material\nspecialized for jointing or fixing rails.', '', ''], ['6352', '7302.10.00', '- Rails', '0%', 'E0'], ['6353', '7302.30.00', '- Switch blades, crossing frogs, point rods\nand other crossing pieces', '0%', 'E0'], ['6354', '7302.40.00', '- Fish-plates and sole plates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7302.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6355', '7302.90.10', '- - Sleepers (cross-ties)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6356', '7302.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.03', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast\niron.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Tubes and pipes :', '', ''], ['6357', '7303.00.11', '- - Hubless tubes and pipes', '8%', 'E3'], ['6358', '7303.00.19', '- - Other', '8%', 'E3'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6359', '7303.00.91', '- - With an external diameter not\nexceeding 100 mm', '8%', 'E3'], ['6360', '7303.00.99', '- - Other', '8%', 'E3'], ['', '73.04', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,\nseamless, of iron (other than cast iron)\nor steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas\npipelines :', '', ''], ['6361', '7304.11.00', '- - Of stainless steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6362', '7304.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Casing, tubing and drill pipe, of a kind\nused in drilling for oil or gas :', '', ''], ['', '7304.22', '- - Drill pipe of stainless steel :', '', ''], ['6363', '7304.22.10', '- - - With yield strength less than 80,000\npsi and not threaded pipe-end', '5%', 'E10'], ['6364', '7304.22.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7304.23', '- - Other drill pipe :', '', ''], ['6365', '7304.23.10', '- - - With yield strength less than 80,000\npsi and not threaded pipe-end', '5%', 'E7'], ['6366', '7304.23.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '7304.24', '- - Other, of stainless steel :', '', ''], ['6367', '7304.24.10', '- - - Casing and tubing with yield strength\nless than 80,000 psi and not threaded end', '8%', 'E10'], ['6368', '7304.24.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7304.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6369', '7304.29.10', '- - - Casing and tubing with yield strength\nless than 80,000 psi and not threaded end', '8%', 'E10'], ['6370', '7304.29.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- Other, of circular cross-section, of iron\nor non-alloy steel :', '', ''], ['', '7304.31', '- - Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced) :', '', ''], ['6371', '7304.31.10', '- - - Drillrod casing and tubing with pin\nand box threads', '0%', 'E0'], ['6372', '7304.31.20', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '0%', 'E0'], ['6373', '7304.31.40', '- - - Other, having an external diameter of\nless than 140 mm and containing less than\n0.45 % by weight of carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['6374', '7304.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7304.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6375', '7304.39.20', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '0%', 'E0'], ['6376', '7304.39.40', '- - - Other, having an external diameter of\nless than 140 mm and containing less than\n0.45 % by weight of carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['6377', '7304.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of circular cross-section, of\nstainless steel :', '', ''], ['6378', '7304.41.00', '- - Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6379', '7304.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of circular cross-section, of other\nalloy steel :', '', ''], ['', '7304.51', '- - Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced) :', '', ''], ['6380', '7304.51.10', '- - - Drillrod casing and tubing with pin\nand box threads', '0%', 'E0'], ['6381', '7304.51.20', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '0%', 'E0'], ['6382', '7304.51.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7304.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6383', '7304.59.10', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '0%', 'E0'], ['6384', '7304.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7304.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6385', '7304.90.10', '- - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '0%', 'E0'], ['6386', '7304.90.30', '- - Other, having an external diameter of\nless than 140 mm and containing less than\n0.45 % by weight of carbon', '0%', 'E0'], ['6387', '7304.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.05', 'Other tubes and pipes (for example,\nwelded, riveted or similarly closed),\nhaving circular cross-sections, the\nexternal diameter of which exceeds\n406.4 mm, of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas', '', ''], ['', '', 'pipelines :', '', ''], ['6388', '7305.11.00', '- - Longitudinally submerged arc welded', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '7305.12', '- - Other, longitudinally welded :', '', ''], ['6389', '7305.12.10', '- - - Electric resistance welded (ERW)', '10%', 'E15'], ['6390', '7305.12.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '7305.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6391', '7305.19.10', '- - - Spiral or helical submerged arc\nwelded', '15%', 'E15'], ['6392', '7305.19.90', '- - - Other', '15%', 'E10'], ['6393', '7305.20.00', '- Casing of a kind used in drilling for oil\nor gas', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Other, welded :', '', ''], ['', '7305.31', '- - Longitudinally welded :', '', ''], ['6394', '7305.31.10', '- - - Stainless steel pipes and tubes', '10%', 'E10'], ['6395', '7305.31.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '7305.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6396', '7305.39.10', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi', '10%', 'E15'], ['6397', '7305.39.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['6398', '7305.90.00', '- Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '73.06', 'Other tubes, pipes and hollow profiles\n(for example, open seam or welded,\nriveted or similarly closed), of iron or\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas\npipelines :', '', ''], ['', '7306.11', '- - Welded, of stainless steel :', '', ''], ['6399', '7306.11.10', '- - - Longitudinally electric resistance\nwelded (ERW)', '10%', 'E15'], ['6400', '7306.11.20', '- - - Spiral or helical submerged arc\nwelded', '10%', 'E15'], ['6401', '7306.11.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '7306.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6402', '7306.19.10', '- - - Longitudinally electric resistance\nwelded (ERW)', '10%', 'E10'], ['6403', '7306.19.20', '- - - Spiral or helical submerged arc\nwelded', '10%', 'E15'], ['6404', '7306.19.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- Casing and tubing of a kind used in\ndrilling for oil or gas :', '', ''], ['6405', '7306.21.00', '- - Welded, of stainless steel', '10%', 'E15'], ['6406', '7306.29.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '7306.30', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section,\nof iron or non-alloy steel :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Boiler tubes :', '', ''], ['6407', '7306.30.11', '- - - With an external diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6408', '7306.30.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Copper-plated, fluororesin-coated or\nzinc-chromated steel tubes with an\nexternal diameter not exceeding 15 mm :', '', ''], ['6409', '7306.30.21', '- - - With an external diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6410', '7306.30.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6411', '7306.30.30', '- - Pipe of a kind used to make sheath\npipe (heater pipe) for heating elements of\nelectric flat irons or rice cookers, with an\nexternal diameter not exceeding 12 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi :', '', ''], ['6412', '7306.30.41', '- - - With an external diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6413', '7306.30.49', '- - - Other', '13%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6414', '7306.30.91', '- - - With an internal diameter of 12.5 mm\nor more, an external diameter less than\n140 mm and containing by weight less\nthan 0.45 % of carbon', '13%', 'E7'], ['6415', '7306.30.92', '- - - With an internal diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '5%', 'E0'], ['6416', '7306.30.99', '- - - Other', '13%', 'E7'], ['', '7306.40', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section,\nof stainless steel :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Boiler tubes :', '', ''], ['6417', '7306.40.11', '- - - With an external diameter not\nexceeding 12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6418', '7306.40.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['6419', '7306.40.20', '- - Stainless steel pipes and tubes, with an\nexternal diameter exceeding 105 mm', '5%', 'E0'], ['6420', '7306.40.30', '- - Pipes and tubes containing by weight\nat least 30 % of nickel, with an external\ndiameter not exceeding 10 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6421', '7306.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7306.50', '- Other, welded, of circular cross-section,\nof other alloy steel :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Boiler tubes :', '', ''], ['6422', '7306.50.11', '- - - With an external diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6423', '7306.50.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6424', '7306.50.91', '- - - With an external diameter less than\n12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6425', '7306.50.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- Other, welded, of non-circular cross-\nsection :', '', ''], ['', '7306.61', '- - Of square or rectangular cross-section :', '', ''], ['6426', '7306.61.10', '- - - With an external diagonal cross-\nsection less than 12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6427', '7306.61.90', '- - - Other', '15%', 'E15'], ['', '7306.69', '- - Of other non-circular cross-section :', '', ''], ['6428', '7306.69.10', '- - - With an external diagonal cross-\nsection less than 12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6429', '7306.69.90', '- - - Other', '15%', 'E15'], ['', '7306.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Copper brazed pipes and tubes :', '', ''], ['6430', '7306.90.11', '- - - With an external diagonal cross-\nsection less than 12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6431', '7306.90.19', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6432', '7306.90.91', '- - - High-pressure pipe capable of\nwithstanding a pressure of not less than\n42,000 psi, with an internal diameter less\nthan 12.5 mm', '10%', 'E15'], ['6433', '7306.90.92', '- - - Other high pressure pipes', '10%', 'E15'], ['6434', '7306.90.93', '- - - Other, with an external diagonal\ncross-section less than 12.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6435', '7306.90.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E10'], ['', '73.07', 'Tube or pipe fittings (for example,\ncouplings, elbows, sleeves), of iron or\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cast fittings :', '', ''], ['', '7307.11', '- - Of non-malleable cast iron :', '', ''], ['6436', '7307.11.10', '- - - Hubless tube or pipe fittings', '8%', 'E5'], ['6437', '7307.11.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['6438', '7307.19.00', '- - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- Other, of stainless steel :', '', ''], ['', '7307.21', '- - Flanges :', '', ''], ['6439', '7307.21.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6440', '7307.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.22', '- - Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves :', '', ''], ['6441', '7307.22.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6442', '7307.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.23', '- - Butt welding fittings :', '', ''], ['6443', '7307.23.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6444', '7307.23.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6445', '7307.29.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6446', '7307.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7307.91', '- - Flanges :', '', ''], ['6447', '7307.91.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6448', '7307.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.92', '- - Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves :', '', ''], ['6449', '7307.92.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6450', '7307.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.93', '- - Butt welding fittings :', '', ''], ['6451', '7307.93.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6452', '7307.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7307.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6453', '7307.99.10', '- - - Having an internal diameter of less\nthan 15 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6454', '7307.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.08', 'Structures (excluding prefabricated\nbuildings of heading 94.06) and parts of\nstructures (for example, bridges and\nbridge-sections, lock-gates, towers,\nlattice masts, roofs, roofing frame-\nworks, doors and windows and their\nframes and thresholds for doors,\nshutters, balustrades, pillars and\ncolumns), of iron or steel; plates, rods,\nangles, shapes, sections, tubes and the\nlike, prepared for use in structures, of\niron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '7308.10', '- Bridges and bridge-sections :', '', ''], ['6455', '7308.10.10', '- - Prefabricated modular type joined by\nshear connectors', '8%', 'E7'], ['6456', '7308.10.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7308.20', '- Towers and lattice masts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Towers :', '', ''], ['6457', '7308.20.11', '- - - Prefabricated modular type joined by\nshear connectors', '8%', 'E7'], ['6458', '7308.20.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Lattice masts :', '', ''], ['6459', '7308.20.21', '- - - Prefabricated modular type joined by\nshear connectors', '8%', 'E7'], ['6460', '7308.20.29', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7308.30', '- Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors :', '', ''], ['6461', '7308.30.10', '- - Doors, of a thickness of 6 mm or more\nbut not exceeding 8 mm', '8%', 'E7'], ['6462', '7308.30.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7308.40', '- Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering,\npropping or pit-propping :', '', ''], ['6463', '7308.40.10', '- - Prefabricated modular type joined by\nshear connectors', '8%', 'E7'], ['6464', '7308.40.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7308.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6465', '7308.90.20', '- - Prefabricated modular type joined by\nshear connectors', '8%', 'E7'], ['6466', '7308.90.40', '- - Corrugated and curved galvanised\nplates or sheets prepared for use in\nconduits, culverts or tunnels', '8%', 'E7'], ['6467', '7308.90.50', '- - Rails for ships', '8%', 'E7'], ['6468', '7308.90.60', '- - Perforated cable trays', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6469', '7308.90.92', '- - - Guardrails', '8%', 'E7'], ['6470', '7308.90.99', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '73.09', 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of iron or\nsteel, of a capacity exceeding 300 l,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated,\nbut not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of a kind used for the conveyance or\npacking of goods :', '', ''], ['6471', '7309.00.11', '- - Lined or heat-insulated', '5%', 'E3'], ['6472', '7309.00.19', '- - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6473', '7309.00.91', '- - Lined or heat-insulated', '5%', 'E3'], ['6474', '7309.00.99', '- - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '73.10', 'Tanks, casks, drums, cans, boxes and\nsimilar containers, for any material\n(other than compressed or liquefied\ngas), of iron or steel, of a capacity not\nexceeding 300 l, whether or not lined or\nheat-insulated, but not fitted with\nmechanical or thermal equipment.', '', ''], ['', '7310.10', '- Of a capacity of 50 l or more :', '', ''], ['6475', '7310.10.10', '- - Of tinplate', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6476', '7310.10.91', '- - - Casting, forging or stamping, in the\nrough state', '0%', 'E0'], ['6477', '7310.10.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Of a capacity of less than 50 l :', '', ''], ['', '7310.21', '- - Cans which are to be closed by\nsoldering or crimping :', '', ''], ['6478', '7310.21.10', '- - - Of a capacity of less than 1 l', '6%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6479', '7310.21.91', '- - - - Of tinplate', '10%', 'E0'], ['6480', '7310.21.99', '- - - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '7310.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6481', '7310.29.10', '- - - Of a capacity of less than 1 l', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6482', '7310.29.91', '- - - - Of tinplate', '10%', 'E15'], ['6483', '7310.29.92', '- - - - Other casting, forging or stamping,\nin the rough state', '3%', 'E3'], ['6484', '7310.29.99', '- - - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '73.11', 'Containers for compressed or liquefied\ngas, of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Seamless steel cylinders :', '', ''], ['6485', '7311.00.23', '- - Of a capacity of less than 30 l, for\nLiquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6486', '7311.00.24', '- - Of a capacity of 30 l or more, but less\nthan 110 l, for Liquefied Petroleum Gas\n(LPG)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6487', '7311.00.25', '- - Other, for Liquefied Petroleum Gas\n(LPG)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6488', '7311.00.26', '- - Other, of a capacity of less than 30 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['6489', '7311.00.27', '- - Other, of a capacity of 30 l or more,\nbut less than 110 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['6490', '7311.00.29', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6491', '7311.00.91', '- - Of a capacity not exceeding 7.3 l', '8%', 'E7'], ['6492', '7311.00.92', '- - Of a capacity more than 7.3 l but less\nthan 30 l', '8%', 'E7'], ['6493', '7311.00.94', '- - Of a capacity of 30 l or more, but less\nthan 110 l', '8%', 'E7'], ['6494', '7311.00.99', '- - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '73.12', 'Stranded wire, ropes, cables, plaited\nbands, slings and the like, of iron or\nsteel, not electrically insulated.', '', ''], ['', '7312.10', '- Stranded wire, ropes and cables :', '', ''], ['6495', '7312.10.10', '- - Locked coils, flattened strands and\nnon-rotating wire ropes', '10%', 'E0'], ['6496', '7312.10.20', '- - Plated or coated with brass and of a\ndiameter not exceeding 3 mm', '10%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6497', '7312.10.91', '- - - Stranded steel wires for prestressing\nconcrete', '10%', 'E5'], ['6498', '7312.10.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['6499', '7312.90.00', '- Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['6500', '7313.00.00', 'Barbed wire of iron or steel; twisted\nhoop or single flat wire, barbed or not,\nand loosely twisted double wire, of a\nkind used for fencing, of iron or steel.', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '73.14', 'Cloth (including endless bands), grill,\nnetting and fencing, of iron or steel\nwire; expanded metal of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Woven cloth :', '', ''], ['6501', '7314.12.00', '- - Endless bands for machinery, of\nstainless steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6502', '7314.14.00', '- - Other woven cloth, of stainless steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7314.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6503', '7314.19.10', '- - - Endless bands for machinery other\nthan of stainless steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6504', '7314.19.90', '- - - Other', '3%', 'E3'], ['6505', '7314.20.00', '- Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the\nintersection, of wire with a maximum\ncross-sectional dimension of 3 mm or\nmore and having a mesh size of 100 cm2\nor more', '10%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- Other grill, netting and fencing, welded\nat the intersection :', '', ''], ['6506', '7314.31.00', '- - Plated or coated with zinc', '10%', 'E7'], ['6507', '7314.39.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- Other cloth, grill, netting and fencing :', '', ''], ['6508', '7314.41.00', '- - Plated or coated with zinc', '10%', 'E7'], ['6509', '7314.42.00', '- - Coated with plastics', '10%', 'E7'], ['6510', '7314.49.00', '- - Other', '10%', 'E7'], ['6511', '7314.50.00', '- Expanded metal', '10%', 'E7'], ['', '73.15', 'Chain and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Articulated link chain and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '7315.11', '- - Roller chain :', '', ''], ['6512', '7315.11.10', '- - - Bicycle or motorcycle chain', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6513', '7315.11.91', '- - - - Transmission type, of a pitch length\nof not less than 6 mm and not more than\n32 mm', '5%', 'E5'], ['6514', '7315.11.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7315.12', '- - Other chain :', '', ''], ['6515', '7315.12.10', '- - - Bicycle or motorcycle chain', '5%', 'E5'], ['6516', '7315.12.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7315.19', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['6517', '7315.19.10', '- - - Of bicycle or motorcycle chain', '0%', 'E0'], ['6518', '7315.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['6519', '7315.20.00', '- Skid chain', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- Other chain :', '', ''], ['6520', '7315.81.00', '- - Stud-link', '10%', 'E5'], ['6521', '7315.82.00', '- - Other, welded link', '10%', 'E5'], ['', '7315.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6522', '7315.89.10', '- - - Bicycle or motorcycle chain', '5%', 'E5'], ['6523', '7315.89.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7315.90', '- Other parts :', '', ''], ['6524', '7315.90.20', '- - Of bicycle or motorcycle chain', '0%', 'E0'], ['6525', '7315.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6526', '7316.00.00', 'Anchors, grapnels and parts thereof, of\niron or steel.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.17', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated\nnails, staples (other than those of\nheading 83.05) and similar articles, of\niron or steel, whether or not with heads\nof other material, but excluding such\narticles with heads of copper.', '', ''], ['6527', '7317.00.10', '- Wire nails', '5%', 'E5'], ['6528', '7317.00.20', '- Staples', '0%', 'E0'], ['6529', '7317.00.30', '- Dog spikes for rail sleepers; gang nails', '0%', 'E0'], ['6530', '7317.00.90', '- Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '73.18', 'Screws, bolts, nuts, coach screws, screw\nhooks, rivets, cotters, cotter-pins,\nwashers (including spring washers) and\nsimilar articles, of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Threaded articles :', '', ''], ['6531', '7318.11.00', '- - Coach screws', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '7318.12', '- - Other wood screws :', '', ''], ['6532', '7318.12.10', '- - - Having a shank of an external\ndiameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E5'], ['6533', '7318.12.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['6534', '7318.13.00', '- - Screw hooks and screw rings', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7318.14', '- - Self-tapping screws :', '', ''], ['6535', '7318.14.10', '- - - Having a shank of an external\ndiameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E7'], ['6536', '7318.14.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7318.15', '- - Other screws and bolts, whether or not\nwith their nuts or washers :', '', ''], ['6537', '7318.15.10', '- - - Having a shank of an external\ndiameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E15'], ['6538', '7318.15.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '7318.16', '- - Nuts :', '', ''], ['6539', '7318.16.10', '- - - For bolts having a shank of an\nexternal diameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E7'], ['6540', '7318.16.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E7'], ['', '7318.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6541', '7318.19.10', '- - - Having a shank of an external\ndiameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E5'], ['6542', '7318.19.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '', '- Non-threaded articles :', '', ''], ['6543', '7318.21.00', '- - Spring washers and other lock washers', '8%', 'E7'], ['6544', '7318.22.00', '- - Other washers', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '7318.23', '- - Rivets :', '', ''], ['6545', '7318.23.10', '- - - Having an external diameter not\nexceeding 16 mm', '10%', 'E15'], ['6546', '7318.23.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['6547', '7318.24.00', '- - Cotters and cotter-pins', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '7318.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6548', '7318.29.10', '- - - Having a shank of an external\ndiameter not exceeding 16 mm', '8%', 'E15'], ['6549', '7318.29.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E15'], ['', '73.19', 'Sewing needles, knitting needles,\nbodkins, crochet hooks, embroidery\nstilettos and similar articles, for use in\nthe hand, of iron or steel; safety pins\nand other pins of iron or steel, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['', '7319.40', '- Safety pins and other pins :', '', ''], ['6550', '7319.40.10', '- - Safety pins', '10%', 'E15'], ['6551', '7319.40.20', '- - Other pins', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '7319.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6552', '7319.90.10', '- - Sewing, darning or embroidery needles', '5%', 'E0'], ['6553', '7319.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '73.20', 'Springs and leaves for springs, of iron\nor steel.', '', ''], ['', '7320.10', '- Leaf-springs and leaves therefor :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Suitable for use on motor vehicles or\nmachinery of heading 84.29 or 84.30 :', '', ''], ['6554', '7320.10.11', '- - - Suitable for use on motor vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '8%', 'E10'], ['6555', '7320.10.12', '- - - Suitable for use on other motor\nvehicles', '8%', 'E10'], ['6556', '7320.10.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E10'], ['6557', '7320.10.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '7320.20', '- Helical springs :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Suitable for use on motor vehicles or\nmachinery of heading 84.29 or 84.30 :', '', ''], ['6558', '7320.20.11', '- - - For motor vehicles', '8%', 'E10'], ['6559', '7320.20.12', '- - - For earth-moving machinery', '8%', 'E10'], ['6560', '7320.20.19', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E10'], ['6561', '7320.20.90', '- - Other', '6%', 'E5'], ['', '7320.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6562', '7320.90.10', '- - Suitable for use on motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6563', '7320.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.21', 'Stoves, ranges, grates, cookers\n(including those with subsidiary boilers\nfor central heating), barbecues,\nbraziers, gas-rings, plate warmers and\nsimilar non-electric domestic\nappliances, and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cooking appliances and plate warmers :', '', ''], ['6564', '7321.11.00', '- - For gas fuel or for both gas and other\nfuels', '5%', 'E5'], ['6565', '7321.12.00', '- - For liquid fuel', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7321.19', '- - Other, including appliances for solid\nfuel :', '', ''], ['6566', '7321.19.10', '- - - For solid fuel', '5%', 'E15'], ['6567', '7321.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Other appliances :', '', ''], ['6568', '7321.81.00', '- - For gas fuel or for both gas and other\nfuels', '5%', 'E5'], ['6569', '7321.82.00', '- - For liquid fuel', '5%', 'E5'], ['6570', '7321.89.00', '- - Other, including appliances for solid\nfuel', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '7321.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['6571', '7321.90.10', '- - Of kerosene stoves', '5%', 'E5'], ['6572', '7321.90.20', '- - Of cooking appliances and plate\nwarmers using gas fuel', '5%', 'E5'], ['6573', '7321.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '73.22', 'Radiators for central heating, not\nelectrically heated, and parts thereof, of\niron or steel; air heaters and hot air\ndistributors (including distributors\nwhich can also distribute fresh or\nconditioned air), not electrically heated,\nincorporating a motor-driven fan or\nblower, and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Radiators and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['6574', '7322.11.00', '- - Of cast iron', '0%', 'E0'], ['6575', '7322.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6576', '7322.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '73.23', 'Table, kitchen or other household\narticles and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel; iron or steel wool; pot scourers\nand scouring or polishing pads, gloves\nand the like, of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['6577', '7323.10.00', '- Iron or steel wool; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves and the\nlike', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7323.91', '- - Of cast iron, not enamelled :', '', ''], ['6578', '7323.91.10', '- - - Kitchenware', '10%', 'E15'], ['6579', '7323.91.20', '- - - Ashtrays', '10%', 'E0'], ['6580', '7323.91.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['6581', '7323.92.00', '- - Of cast iron, enamelled', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '7323.93', '- - Of stainless steel :', '', ''], ['6582', '7323.93.10', '- - - Kitchenware', '0%', 'E0'], ['6583', '7323.93.20', '- - - Ashtrays', '10%', 'E0'], ['6584', '7323.93.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['6585', '7323.94.00', '- - Of iron (other than cast iron) or steel,\nenamelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7323.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6586', '7323.99.10', '- - - Kitchenware', '10%', 'E15'], ['6587', '7323.99.20', '- - - Ashtrays', '10%', 'E0'], ['6588', '7323.99.90', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '73.24', 'Sanitary ware and parts thereof, of iron\nor steel.', '', ''], ['', '7324.10', '- Sinks and wash basins, of stainless\nsteel :', '', ''], ['6589', '7324.10.10', '- - Kitchen sinks', '10%', 'E0'], ['6590', '7324.10.90', '- - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Baths :', '', ''], ['', '7324.21', '- - Of cast iron, whether or not\nenamelled :', '', ''], ['6591', '7324.21.10', '- - - Bathtubs having rectangular or\noblong interior shape', '5%', 'E0'], ['6592', '7324.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7324.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6593', '7324.29.10', '- - - Bathtubs having rectangular or\noblong interior shape', '5%', 'E0'], ['6594', '7324.29.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '7324.90', '- Other, including parts :', '', ''], ['6595', '7324.90.10', '- - Flushing water closets or urinals (fixed\ntype)', '5%', 'E0'], ['6596', '7324.90.30', '- - Bedpans and portable urinals', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6597', '7324.90.91', '- - - Parts of kitchen sinks or bathtubs', '10%', 'E0'], ['6598', '7324.90.93', '- - - Parts of flushing water closets or\nurinals (fixed type)', '10%', 'E0'], ['6599', '7324.90.99', '- - - Other', '10%', 'E0'], ['', '73.25', 'Other cast articles of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '7325.10', '- Of non-malleable cast iron :', '', ''], ['6600', '7325.10.20', '- - Manhole covers, gratings and frames', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '', 'therefor', '', ''], ['6601', '7325.10.30', '- - Spouts and cups for latex collection', '0%', 'E0'], ['6602', '7325.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6603', '7325.91.00', '- - Grinding balls and similar articles for\nmills', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '7325.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6604', '7325.99.20', '- - - Manhole covers, gratings and frames\ntherefor', '5%', 'E5'], ['6605', '7325.99.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E5'], ['', '73.26', 'Other articles of iron or steel.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Forged or stamped, but not further\nworked :', '', ''], ['6606', '7326.11.00', '- - Grinding balls and similar articles for\nmills', '3%', 'E3'], ['6607', '7326.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7326.20', '- Articles of iron or steel wire :', '', ''], ['6608', '7326.20.50', '- - Poultry cages and the like', '10%', 'E0'], ['6609', '7326.20.60', '- - Rat traps', '5%', 'E0'], ['6610', '7326.20.90', '- - Other', '10%', 'E15'], ['', '7326.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6611', '7326.90.10', "- - Ships' rudders", '0%', 'E0'], ['6612', '7326.90.20', '- - Spouts and cups for latex collection', '5%', 'E0'], ['6613', '7326.90.30', '- - Stainless steel clamp assemblies with\nrubber sleeves of a kind used for hubless\ncast iron pipes and pipe fittings', '5%', 'E5'], ['6614', '7326.90.60', '- - Bunsen burners', '5%', 'E5'], ['6615', '7326.90.70', '- - Horseshoes; riding boot spurs', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6616', '7326.90.91', '- - - Cigarette cases and boxes', '5%', 'E0'], ['6617', '7326.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['6618', '7401.00.00', 'Copper mattes; cement copper\n(precipitated copper).', '0%', 'E0'], ['6619', '7402.00.00', 'Unrefined copper; copper anodes for\nelectrolytic refining.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.03', 'Refined copper and copper alloys,\nunwrought.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Refined copper :', '', ''], ['6620', '7403.11.00', '- - Cathodes and sections of cathodes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6621', '7403.12.00', '- - Wire-bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['6622', '7403.13.00', '- - Billets', '0%', 'E0'], ['6623', '7403.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Copper alloys :', '', ''], ['6624', '7403.21.00', '- - Copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6625', '7403.22.00', '- - Copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6626', '7403.29.00', '- - Other copper alloys (other than master\nalloys of heading 74.05)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6627', '7404.00.00', 'Copper waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['6628', '7405.00.00', 'Master alloys of copper.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.06', 'Copper powders and flakes.', '', ''], ['6629', '7406.10.00', '- Powders of non-lamellar structure', '0%', 'E0'], ['6630', '7406.20.00', '- Powders of lamellar structure; flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.07', 'Copper bars, rods and profiles.', '', ''], ['', '7407.10', '- Of refined copper :', '', ''], ['6631', '7407.10.30', '- - Profiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6632', '7407.10.40', '- - Bars and rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of copper alloys :', '', ''], ['6633', '7407.21.00', '- - Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6634', '7407.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.08', 'Copper wire.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of refined copper :', '', ''], ['', '7408.11', '- - Of which the maximum cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 6 mm :', '', ''], ['6635', '7408.11.10', '- - - Of which the maximum cross-\nsectional dimension does not exceed 14\nmm', '5%', 'E3'], ['6636', '7408.11.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['6637', '7408.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of copper alloys :', '', ''], ['6638', '7408.21.00', '- - Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6639', '7408.22.00', '- - Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6640', '7408.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.09', 'Copper plates, sheets and strip, of a\nthickness exceeding 0.15 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of refined copper :', '', ''], ['6641', '7409.11.00', '- - In coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6642', '7409.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass) :', '', ''], ['6643', '7409.21.00', '- - In coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6644', '7409.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of copper-tin base alloys (bronze) :', '', ''], ['6645', '7409.31.00', '- - In coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6646', '7409.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6647', '7409.40.00', '- Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6648', '7409.90.00', '- Of other copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.10', 'Copper foil (whether or not printed or\nbacked with paper, paperboard,\nplastics or similar backing materials),\nof a thickness (excluding any backing)\nnot exceeding 0.15 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not backed :', '', ''], ['6649', '7410.11.00', '- - Of refined copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['6650', '7410.12.00', '- - Of copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Backed :', '', ''], ['', '7410.21', '- - Of refined copper :', '', ''], ['6651', '7410.21.10', '- - - Copper clad laminate for printed\ncircuit boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['6652', '7410.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6653', '7410.22.00', '- - Of copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.11', 'Copper tubes and pipes.', '', ''], ['6654', '7411.10.00', '- Of refined copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of copper alloys :', '', ''], ['6655', '7411.21.00', '- - Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6656', '7411.22.00', '- - Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-\nnickel) or copper-nickel-zinc base alloys\n(nickel silver)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6657', '7411.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.12', 'Copper tube or pipe fittings (for\nexample, couplings, elbows, sleeves).', '', ''], ['6658', '7412.10.00', '- Of refined copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7412.20', '- Of copper alloys :', '', ''], ['6659', '7412.20.20', '- - Hose fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6660', '7412.20.91', '- - - Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6661', '7412.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.13', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands\nand the like, of copper, not electrically\ninsulated.', '', ''], ['6662', '7413.00.10', '- Of a diameter not exceeding 28.28 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6663', '7413.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.15', 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, staples\n(other than those of heading 83.05) and\nsimilar articles, of copper or of iron or\nsteel with heads of copper; screws,\nbolts, nuts, screw hooks, rivets, cotters,\ncotter-pins, washers (including spring\nwashers) and similar articles, of copper.', '', ''], ['', '7415.10', '- Nails and tacks, drawing pins, staples\nand similar articles :', '', ''], ['6664', '7415.10.10', '- - Nails', '0%', 'E0'], ['6665', '7415.10.20', '- - Staples', '0%', 'E0'], ['6666', '7415.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other articles, not threaded :', '', ''], ['6667', '7415.21.00', '- - Washers (including spring washers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6668', '7415.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other threaded articles :', '', ''], ['', '7415.33', '- - Screws; bolts and nuts :', '', ''], ['6669', '7415.33.10', '- - - Screws', '0%', 'E0'], ['6670', '7415.33.20', '- - - Bolts and nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6671', '7415.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.18', 'Table, kitchen or other household\narticles and parts thereof, of copper;\npot scourers and scouring or polishing\npads, gloves and the like, of copper;\nsanitary ware and parts thereof, of\ncopper.', '', ''], ['', '7418.10', '- Table, kitchen or other household\narticles and parts thereof; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves and the\nlike :', '', ''], ['6672', '7418.10.10', '- - Pot scourers and scouring or polishing\npads, gloves and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['6673', '7418.10.30', '- - Cooking or heating apparatus of a kind\nused for household purposes, non-electric\nand parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['6674', '7418.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6675', '7418.20.00', '- Sanitary ware and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '74.19', 'Other articles of copper.', '', ''], ['6676', '7419.10.00', '- Chain and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '7419.91', '- - Cast, moulded, stamped or forged, but\nnot further worked :', '', ''], ['6677', '7419.91.10', '- - - Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['6678', '7419.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7419.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Cloth (including endless bands), grill\nand netting, of copper wire; expanded\nmetal of copper :', '', ''], ['6679', '7419.99.31', '- - - - For machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['6680', '7419.99.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6681', '7419.99.40', '- - - Springs', '0%', 'E0'], ['6682', '7419.99.50', '- - - Cigarette cases or boxes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6683', '7419.99.60', '- - - Cooking or heating apparatus, other\nthan of a kind used for domestic purposes,\nand parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['6684', '7419.99.70', '- - - Articles specially designed for use\nduring religious rites', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6685', '7419.99.91', '- - - - Electroplating anodes; capacity\nmeasures (other than for domestic use)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6686', '7419.99.92', '- - - - Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment of a capacity of 300 l\nor less', '0%', 'E0'], ['6687', '7419.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.01', 'Nickel mattes, nickel oxide sinters and\nother intermediate products of nickel\nmetallurgy.', '', ''], ['6688', '7501.10.00', '- Nickel mattes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6689', '7501.20.00', '- Nickel oxide sinters and other\nintermediate products of nickel\nmetallurgy', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.02', 'Unwrought nickel.', '', ''], ['6690', '7502.10.00', '- Nickel, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6691', '7502.20.00', '- Nickel alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6692', '7503.00.00', 'Nickel waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['6693', '7504.00.00', 'Nickel powders and flakes.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.05', 'Nickel bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Bars, rods and profiles :', '', ''], ['6694', '7505.11.00', '- - Of nickel, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6695', '7505.12.00', '- - Of nickel alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Wire :', '', ''], ['6696', '7505.21.00', '- - Of nickel, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6697', '7505.22.00', '- - Of nickel alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.06', 'Nickel plates, sheets, strip and foil.', '', ''], ['6698', '7506.10.00', '- Of nickel, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6699', '7506.20.00', '- Of nickel alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.07', 'Nickel tubes, pipes and tube or pipe\nfittings (for example, couplings, elbows,\nsleeves).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Tubes and pipes :', '', ''], ['6700', '7507.11.00', '- - Of nickel, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6701', '7507.12.00', '- - Of nickel alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6702', '7507.20.00', '- Tube or pipe fittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '75.08', 'Other articles of nickel.', '', ''], ['6703', '7508.10.00', '- Cloth, grill and netting, of nickel wire', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7508.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6704', '7508.90.30', '- - Bolts and nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6705', '7508.90.50', '- - Electroplating anodes, including those\nproduced by electrolysis', '0%', 'E0'], ['6706', '7508.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.01', 'Unwrought aluminium.', '', ''], ['6707', '7601.10.00', '- Aluminium, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6708', '7601.20.00', '- Aluminium alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6709', '7602.00.00', 'Aluminium waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.03', 'Aluminium powders and flakes.', '', ''], ['6710', '7603.10.00', '- Powders of non-lamellar structure', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7603.20', '- Powders of lamellar structure; flakes :', '', ''], ['6711', '7603.20.10', '- - Flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6712', '7603.20.20', '- - Powders of lamellar structure', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.04', 'Aluminium bars, rods and profiles.', '', ''], ['', '7604.10', '- Of aluminium, not alloyed :', '', ''], ['6713', '7604.10.10', '- - Bars and rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['6714', '7604.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of aluminium alloys :', '', ''], ['', '7604.21', '- - Hollow profiles :', '', ''], ['6715', '7604.21.10', '- - - Perforated tube profiles of a kind\nsuitable for use in evaporator coils of\nmotor vehicle air conditioning machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['6716', '7604.21.20', '- - - Aluminium spacers (hollow profiles\nwith one side having light perforations\nalong its whole length)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6717', '7604.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7604.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6718', '7604.29.10', '- - - Extruded bars and rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['6719', '7604.29.30', '- - - Y-shaped profiles for zip fasteners, in\ncoils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6720', '7604.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.05', 'Aluminium wire.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of aluminium, not alloyed :', '', ''], ['6721', '7605.11.00', '- - Of which the maximum cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 7 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7605.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6722', '7605.19.10', '- - - Of a diameter not exceeding 0.0508\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6723', '7605.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of aluminium alloys :', '', ''], ['6724', '7605.21.00', '- - Of which the maximum cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 7 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7605.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6725', '7605.29.10', '- - - Of a diameter not exceeding 0.254\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6726', '7605.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.06', 'Aluminium plates, sheets and strip, of a\nthickness exceeding 0.2 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Rectangular (including square) :', '', ''], ['', '7606.11', '- - Of aluminium, not alloyed :', '', ''], ['6727', '7606.11.10', '- - - Plain or figured by rolling or\npressing, not otherwise surface treated', '0%', 'E0'], ['6728', '7606.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7606.12', '- - Of aluminium alloys :', '', ''], ['6729', '7606.12.20', '- - - Aluminium plates, not sensitised, of a\nkind used in the printing industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Sheets :', '', ''], ['6730', '7606.12.32', '- - - - For making can stock including end\nstock and tab stock, in coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6731', '7606.12.33', '- - - - Other, of aluminium alloy 5082 or\n5182, exceeding 1 m in width, in coils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6732', '7606.12.34', '- - - - Other, litho grade sheet alloy HA\n1052 hardness temper H19 and alloy HA\n1050 hardness temper H18', '0%', 'E0'], ['6733', '7606.12.35', '- - - - Other, surface worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['6734', '7606.12.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6735', '7606.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6736', '7606.91.00', '- - Of aluminium, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6737', '7606.92.00', '- - Of aluminium alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.07', 'Aluminium foil (whether or not printed\nor backed with paper, paperboard,\nplastics or similar backing materials) of\na thickness (excluding any backing) not\nexceeding 0.2 mm.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Not backed :', '', ''], ['6738', '7607.11.00', '- - Rolled but not further worked', '0%', 'E0'], ['6739', '7607.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7607.20', '- Backed :', '', ''], ['6740', '7607.20.10', '- - Thermal insulation foil', '0%', 'E0'], ['6741', '7607.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.08', 'Aluminium tubes and pipes.', '', ''], ['6742', '7608.10.00', '- Of aluminium, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6743', '7608.20.00', '- Of aluminium alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6744', '7609.00.00', 'Aluminium tube or pipe fittings (for\nexample, couplings, elbows, sleeves).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.10', 'Aluminium structures (excluding\nprefabricated buildings of heading\n94.06) and parts of structures (for\nexample, bridges and bridge-sections,\ntowers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing\nframeworks, doors and windows and\ntheir frames and thresholds for doors,\nbalustrades, pillars and columns);\naluminium plates, rods, profiles, tubes\nand the like, prepared for use in\nstructures.', '', ''], ['', '7610.10', '- Doors, windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors :', '', ''], ['6745', '7610.10.10', '- - Doors and their frames and thresholds\nfor doors', '0%', 'E0'], ['6746', '7610.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7610.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6747', '7610.90.30', '- - Internal or external floating roofs for\npetroleum storage tanks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6748', '7610.90.91', '- - - Bridges and bridge-sections; towers\nor lattice masts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6749', '7610.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6750', '7611.00.00', 'Aluminium reservoirs, tanks, vats and\nsimilar containers, for any material\n(other than compressed or liquefied\ngas), of a capacity exceeding 300 l,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated,\nbut not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.12', 'Aluminium casks, drums, cans, boxes\nand similar containers (including rigid\nor collapsible tubular containers), for\nany material (other than compressed or\nliquefied gas), of a capacity not\nexceeding 300 l, whether or not lined or\nheat-insulated, but not fitted with\nmechanical or thermal equipment.', '', ''], ['6751', '7612.10.00', '- Collapsible tubular containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7612.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6752', '7612.90.10', '- - Seamless containers of a kind suitable\nfor fresh milk', '0%', 'E0'], ['6753', '7612.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6754', '7613.00.00', 'Aluminium containers for compressed\nor liquefied gas.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.14', 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands\nand the like, of aluminium, not\nelectrically insulated.', '', ''], ['', '7614.10', '- With steel core :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Cables :', '', ''], ['6755', '7614.10.11', '- - - Of a diameter not exceeding 25.3 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6756', '7614.10.12', '- - - Of a diameter exceeding 25.3 mm but\nnot exceeding 28.28 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6757', '7614.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6758', '7614.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7614.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Cables :', '', ''], ['6759', '7614.90.11', '- - - Of a diameter not exceeding 25.3 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6760', '7614.90.12', '- - - Of a diameter exceeding 25.3 mm but\nnot exceeding 28.28 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6761', '7614.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6762', '7614.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.15', 'Table, kitchen or other household\narticles and parts thereof, of\naluminium; pot scourers and scouring\nor polishing pads, gloves and the like,\nof aluminium; sanitary ware and parts\nthereof, of aluminium.', '', ''], ['', '7615.10', '- Table, kitchen or other household\narticles and parts thereof; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves and the\nlike :', '', ''], ['6763', '7615.10.10', '- - Pot scourers and scouring or polishing\npads, gloves and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['6764', '7615.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7615.20', '- Sanitary ware and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['6765', '7615.20.20', '- - Bedpans, urinals and chamber-pots', '0%', 'E0'], ['6766', '7615.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '76.16', 'Other articles of aluminium.', '', ''], ['', '7616.10', '- Nails, tacks, staples (other than those of\nheading 83.05), screws, bolts, nuts, screw\nhooks, rivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers\nand similar articles :', '', ''], ['6767', '7616.10.10', '- - Nails', '0%', 'E0'], ['6768', '7616.10.20', '- - Staples and hooks; bolts and nuts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6769', '7616.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6770', '7616.91.00', '- - Cloth, grill, netting and fencing, of\naluminium wire', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '7616.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6771', '7616.99.20', '- - - Ferrules of a kind suitable for use in\nthe manufacture of pencils', '0%', 'E0'], ['6772', '7616.99.30', '- - - Slugs, round, of such dimension that\nthe thickness exceeds one-tenth of the\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['6773', '7616.99.40', '- - - Bobbins, spools, reels and similar\nsupports for textile yarn', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Blinds :', '', ''], ['6774', '7616.99.51', '- - - - Venetian blinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['6775', '7616.99.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6776', '7616.99.60', '- - - Spouts and cups of a kind used for\nlatex collection', '0%', 'E0'], ['6777', '7616.99.70', '- - - Cigarette cases or boxes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6778', '7616.99.80', '- - - Expanded metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['6779', '7616.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '78.01', 'Unwrought lead.', '', ''], ['6780', '7801.10.00', '- Refined lead', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6781', '7801.91.00', '- - Containing by weight antimony as the\nprincipal other element', '0%', 'E0'], ['6782', '7801.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6783', '7802.00.00', 'Lead waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '78.04', 'Lead plates, sheets, strip and foil; lead\npowders and flakes.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Plates, sheets, strip and foil :', '', ''], ['', '7804.11', '- - Sheets, strip and foil of a thickness\n(excluding any backing) not exceeding\n0.2 mm :', '', ''], ['6784', '7804.11.10', '- - - Of a thickness not exceeding 0.15\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6785', '7804.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6786', '7804.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6787', '7804.20.00', '- Powders and flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '78.06', 'Other articles of lead.', '', ''], ['6788', '7806.00.20', '- Bars, rods, profiles and wire', '0%', 'E0'], ['6789', '7806.00.30', '- Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings\n(for example, couplings, elbows, sleeves)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6790', '7806.00.40', '- Lead wool; washers; electroplating\nanodes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6791', '7806.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '79.01', 'Unwrought zinc.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Zinc, not alloyed :', '', ''], ['6792', '7901.11.00', '- - Containing by weight 99.99 % or more\nof zinc', '0%', 'E0'], ['6793', '7901.12.00', '- - Containing by weight less than\n99.99 % of zinc', '0%', 'E0'], ['6794', '7901.20.00', '- Zinc alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6795', '7902.00.00', 'Zinc waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '79.03', 'Zinc dust, powders and flakes.', '', ''], ['6796', '7903.10.00', '- Zinc dust', '0%', 'E0'], ['6797', '7903.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6798', '7904.00.00', 'Zinc bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '79.05', 'Zinc plates, sheets, strip and foil.', '', ''], ['6799', '7905.00.40', '- Of a thickness not exceeding 0.15 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6800', '7905.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '79.07', 'Other articles of zinc.', '', ''], ['6801', '7907.00.30', '- Gutters, roof capping, skylight frames\nand other fabricated building components', '0%', 'E0'], ['6802', '7907.00.40', '- Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings\n(for example couplings, elbows, sleeves)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6803', '7907.00.91', '- - Cigarette cases or boxes; ashtrays', '0%', 'E0'], ['6804', '7907.00.92', '- - Other household articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6805', '7907.00.93', '- - Electro-plating anodes; stencil plates;\nnails, tacks, nuts, bolts, screws, rivets and\nsimilar fastening; zinc calots for battery\ncells', '0%', 'E0'], ['6806', '7907.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '80.01', 'Unwrought tin.', '', ''], ['6807', '8001.10.00', '- Tin, not alloyed', '0%', 'E0'], ['6808', '8001.20.00', '- Tin alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['6809', '8002.00.00', 'Tin waste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '80.03', 'Tin bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '', ''], ['6810', '8003.00.10', '- Soldering bars', '0%', 'E0'], ['6811', '8003.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '80.07', 'Other articles of tin.', '', ''], ['6812', '8007.00.20', '- Plates, sheets and strip, of a thickness\nexceeding 0.2 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6813', '8007.00.30', '- Foil (whether or not printed or backed\nwith paper, paperboard, plastics or similar\nbacking materials), of a thickness\n(excluding any backing) not exceeding\n0.2 mm; powders and flakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6814', '8007.00.40', '- Tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings\n(for example, couplings, elbows, sleeves)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6815', '8007.00.91', '- - Cigarette cases or boxes; ashtrays', '0%', 'E0'], ['6816', '8007.00.92', '- - Other household articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6817', '8007.00.93', '- - Collapsible tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6818', '8007.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.01', 'Tungsten (wolfram) and articles\nthereof, including waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6819', '8101.10.00', '- Powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6820', '8101.94.00', '- - Unwrought tungsten, including bars\nand rods obtained simply by sintering', '0%', 'E0'], ['6821', '8101.96.00', '- - Wire', '0%', 'E0'], ['6822', '8101.97.00', '- - Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8101.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6823', '8101.99.10', '- - - Bars and rods, other than those\nobtained simply by sintering; profiles,\nsheets, strip and foil', '0%', 'E0'], ['6824', '8101.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.02', 'Molybdenum and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6825', '8102.10.00', '- Powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6826', '8102.94.00', '- - Unwrought molybdenum, including\nbars and rods obtained simply by sintering', '0%', 'E0'], ['6827', '8102.95.00', '- - Bars and rods, other than those\nobtained simply by sintering, profiles,\nplates, sheets, strip and foil', '0%', 'E0'], ['6828', '8102.96.00', '- - Wire', '0%', 'E0'], ['6829', '8102.97.00', '- - Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6830', '8102.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.03', 'Tantalum and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6831', '8103.20.00', '- Unwrought tantalum, including bars and\nrods obtained simply by sintering;\npowders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6832', '8103.30.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6833', '8103.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.04', 'Magnesium and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Unwrought magnesium :', '', ''], ['6834', '8104.11.00', '- - Containing at least 99.8 % by weight\nof magnesium', '0%', 'E0'], ['6835', '8104.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6836', '8104.20.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6837', '8104.30.00', '- Raspings, turnings and granules, graded\naccording to size; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6838', '8104.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.05', 'Cobalt mattes and other intermediate\nproducts of cobalt metallurgy; cobalt\nand articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', ''], ['', '8105.20', '- Cobalt mattes and other intermediate\nproducts of cobalt metallurgy; unwrought\ncobalt; powders :', '', ''], ['6839', '8105.20.10', '- - Unwrought cobalt', '0%', 'E0'], ['6840', '8105.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6841', '8105.30.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6842', '8105.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.06', 'Bismuth and articles thereof, including\nwaste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6843', '8106.00.10', '- Unwrought bismuth; waste and scrap;\npowders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6844', '8106.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.07', 'Cadmium and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6845', '8107.20.00', '- Unwrought cadmium; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6846', '8107.30.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6847', '8107.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.08', 'Titanium and articles thereof, including\nwaste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6848', '8108.20.00', '- Unwrought titanium; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6849', '8108.30.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6850', '8108.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.09', 'Zirconium and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6851', '8109.20.00', '- Unwrought zirconium; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6852', '8109.30.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6853', '8109.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.10', 'Antimony and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6854', '8110.10.00', '- Unwrought antimony; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6855', '8110.20.00', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6856', '8110.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.11', 'Manganese and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['6857', '8111.00.10', '- Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6858', '8111.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '81.12', 'Beryllium, chromium, germanium,\nvanadium, gallium, hafnium, indium,\nniobium (columbium), rhenium and\nthallium, and articles of these metals,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Beryllium :', '', ''], ['6859', '8112.12.00', '- - Unwrought; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6860', '8112.13.00', '- - Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6861', '8112.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Chromium :', '', ''], ['6862', '8112.21.00', '- - Unwrought; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6863', '8112.22.00', '- - Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6864', '8112.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Thallium :', '', ''], ['6865', '8112.51.00', '- - Unwrought; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6866', '8112.52.00', '- - Waste and scrap', '0%', 'E0'], ['6867', '8112.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6868', '8112.92.00', '- - Unwrought; waste and scrap; powders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6869', '8112.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6870', '8113.00.00', 'Cermets and articles thereof, including\nwaste and scrap.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.01', 'Hand tools, the following : spades,\nshovels, mattocks, picks, hoes, forks\nand rakes; axes, bill hooks and similar\nhewing tools; secateurs and pruners of\nany kind; scythes, sickles, hay knives,\nhedge shears, timber wedges and other\ntools of a kind used in agriculture,\nhorticulture or forestry.', '', ''], ['6871', '8201.10.00', '- Spades and shovels', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8201.30', '- Mattocks, picks, hoes and rakes :', '', ''], ['6872', '8201.30.10', '- - Hoes and rakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['6873', '8201.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6874', '8201.40.00', '- Axes, bill hooks and similar hewing\ntools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6875', '8201.50.00', '- Secateurs and similar one-handed\npruners and shears (including poultry\nshears)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6876', '8201.60.00', '- Hedge shears, two-handed pruning\nshears and similar two-handed shears', '0%', 'E0'], ['6877', '8201.90.00', '- Other hand tools of a kind used in\nagriculture, horticulture or forestry', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.02', 'Hand saws; blades for saws of all kinds\n(including slitting, slotting or toothless\nsaw blades).', '', ''], ['6878', '8202.10.00', '- Hand saws', '0%', 'E0'], ['6879', '8202.20.00', '- Band saw blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Circular saw blades (including slitting or\nslotting saw blades) :', '', ''], ['6880', '8202.31.00', '- - With working part of steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6881', '8202.39.00', '- - Other, including parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6882', '8202.40.00', '- Chain saw blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other saw blades :', '', ''], ['6883', '8202.91.00', '- - Straight saw blades, for working metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8202.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6884', '8202.99.10', '- - - Straight saw blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['6885', '8202.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.03', 'Files, rasps, pliers (including cutting\npliers), pincers, tweezers, metal cutting\nshears, pipe-cutters, bolt croppers,\nperforating punches and similar hand\ntools.', '', ''], ['6886', '8203.10.00', '- Files, rasps and similar tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6887', '8203.20.00', '- Pliers (including cutting pliers), pincers,\ntweezers and similar tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6888', '8203.30.00', '- Metal cutting shears and similar tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6889', '8203.40.00', '- Pipe-cutters, bolt croppers, perforating\npunches and similar tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.04', 'Hand-operated spanners and wrenches\n(including torque meter wrenches but\nnot including tap wrenches);\ninterchangeable spanner sockets, with\nor without handles.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Hand-operated spanners and wrenches :', '', ''], ['6890', '8204.11.00', '- - Non-adjustable', '0%', 'E0'], ['6891', '8204.12.00', '- - Adjustable', '0%', 'E0'], ['6892', '8204.20.00', '- Interchangeable spanner sockets, with or\nwithout handles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.05', 'Hand tools (including glaziers’\ndiamonds), not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; blow lamps; vices, clamps\nand the like, other than accessories for\nand parts of, machine-tools or water-jet\ncutting machines; anvils; portable\nforges; hand- or pedal-operated\ngrinding wheels with frameworks.', '', ''], ['6893', '8205.10.00', '- Drilling, threading or tapping tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6894', '8205.20.00', '- Hammers and sledge hammers', '0%', 'E0'], ['6895', '8205.30.00', '- Planes, chisels, gouges and similar\ncutting tools for working wood', '0%', 'E0'], ['6896', '8205.40.00', '- Screwdrivers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other hand tools (including glaziers’\ndiamonds) :', '', ''], ['6897', '8205.51.00', '- - Household tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['6898', '8205.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6899', '8205.60.00', '- Blow lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['6900', '8205.70.00', '- Vices, clamps and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['6901', '8205.90.00', '- Other, including sets of articles of two or\nmore subheadings of this heading', '0%', 'E0'], ['6902', '8206.00.00', 'Tools of two or more of the headings\n82.02 to 82.05, put up in sets for retail\nsale.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.07', 'Interchangeable tools for hand tools,\nwhether or not power-operated, or for\nmachine-tools (for example, for\npressing, stamping, punching, tapping,\nthreading, drilling, boring, broaching,\nmilling, turning or screw driving),\nincluding dies for drawing or extruding\nmetal, and rock drilling or earth boring\ntools.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Rock drilling or earth boring tools :', '', ''], ['6903', '8207.13.00', '- - With working part of cermets', '0%', 'E0'], ['6904', '8207.19.00', '- - Other, including parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6905', '8207.20.00', '- Dies for drawing or extruding metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['6906', '8207.30.00', '- Tools for pressing, stamping or punching', '0%', 'E0'], ['6907', '8207.40.00', '- Tools for tapping or threading', '0%', 'E0'], ['6908', '8207.50.00', '- Tools for drilling, other than for rock\ndrilling', '0%', 'E0'], ['6909', '8207.60.00', '- Tools for boring or broaching', '0%', 'E0'], ['6910', '8207.70.00', '- Tools for milling', '0%', 'E0'], ['6911', '8207.80.00', '- Tools for turning', '0%', 'E0'], ['6912', '8207.90.00', '- Other interchangeable tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.08', 'Knives and cutting blades, for\nmachines or for mechanical appliances.', '', ''], ['6913', '8208.10.00', '- For metal working', '0%', 'E0'], ['6914', '8208.20.00', '- For wood working', '0%', 'E0'], ['6915', '8208.30.00', '- For kitchen appliances or for machines\nused by the food industry', '0%', 'E0'], ['6916', '8208.40.00', '- For agricultural, horticultural or forestry\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['6917', '8208.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6918', '8209.00.00', 'Plates, sticks, tips and the like for tools,\nunmounted, of cermets.', '0%', 'E0'], ['6919', '8210.00.00', 'Hand-operated mechanical appliances,\nweighing 10 kg or less, used in the\npreparation, conditioning or serving of\nfood or drink.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.11', 'Knives with cutting blades, serrated or\nnot (including pruning knives), other\nthan knives of heading 82.08, and\nblades therefor.', '', ''], ['6920', '8211.10.00', '- Sets of assorted articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6921', '8211.91.00', '- - Table knives having fixed blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8211.92', '- - Other knives having fixed blades :', '', ''], ['6922', '8211.92.50', '- - - Of a kind used for agriculture,\nhorticulture or forestry', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6923', '8211.92.91', "- - - - Flick knives or spring knives;\nhunting knives, diving knives and scouts'\nknives; penknives with blades of 15 cm or\nmore in length", '0%', 'E0'], ['6924', '8211.92.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8211.93', '- - Knives having other than fixed blades :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for agriculture,\nhorticulture or forestry :', '', ''], ['6925', '8211.93.21', '- - - - With handle of base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['6926', '8211.93.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6927', '8211.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8211.94', '- - Blades :', '', ''], ['6928', '8211.94.10', '- - - For knives of a kind used for\nagriculture, horticulture or forestry', '0%', 'E0'], ['6929', '8211.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6930', '8211.95.00', '- - Handles of base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.12', 'Razors and razor blades (including\nrazor blade blanks in strips).', '', ''], ['6931', '8212.10.00', '- Razors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8212.20', '- Safety razor blades, including razor\nblade blanks in strips :', '', ''], ['6932', '8212.20.10', '- - Double-edged razor blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['6933', '8212.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6934', '8212.90.00', '- Other parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6935', '8213.00.00', 'Scissors, tailors’ shears and similar\nshears, and blades therefor.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.14', 'Other articles of cutlery (for example,\nhair clippers, butchers’ or kitchen\ncleavers, choppers and mincing knives,\npaper knives); manicure or pedicure\nsets and instruments (including nail\nfiles).', '', ''], ['6936', '8214.10.00', '- Paper knives, letter openers, erasing\nknives, pencil sharpeners and blades\ntherefor', '0%', 'E0'], ['6937', '8214.20.00', '- Manicure or pedicure sets and\ninstruments (including nail files)', '0%', 'E0'], ['6938', '8214.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '82.15', 'Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers, cake-\nservers, fish-knives, butter-knives,\nsugar tongs and similar kitchen or\ntableware.', '', ''], ['6939', '8215.10.00', '- Sets of assorted articles containing at\nleast one article plated with precious\nmetal', '0%', 'E0'], ['6940', '8215.20.00', '- Other sets of assorted articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6941', '8215.91.00', '- - Plated with precious metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['6942', '8215.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.01', 'Padlocks and locks (key, combination\nor electrically operated), of base metal;\nclasps and frames with clasps,\nincorporating locks, of base metal; keys\nfor any of the foregoing articles, of base\nmetal.', '', ''], ['6943', '8301.10.00', '- Padlocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['6944', '8301.20.00', '- Locks of a kind used for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6945', '8301.30.00', '- Locks of a kind used for furniture', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8301.40', '- Other locks :', '', ''], ['6946', '8301.40.10', '- - Handcuffs', '0%', 'E0'], ['6947', '8301.40.20', '- - Door locks', '0%', 'E0'], ['6948', '8301.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6949', '8301.50.00', '- Clasps and frames with clasps,\nincorporating locks', '0%', 'E0'], ['6950', '8301.60.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['6951', '8301.70.00', '- Keys presented separately', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.02', 'Base metal mountings, fittings and\nsimilar articles suitable for furniture,\ndoors, staircases, windows, blinds,\ncoachwork, saddlery, trunks, chests,\ncaskets or the like; base metal hat-\nracks, hat-pegs, brackets and similar\nfixtures; castors with mountings of base\nmetal; automatic door closers of base\nmetal.', '', ''], ['6952', '8302.10.00', '- Hinges', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8302.20', '- Castors :', '', ''], ['6953', '8302.20.10', '- - Of a diameter (including tyres)\nexceeding 100 mm, but not exceeding 250\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['6954', '8302.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8302.30', '- Other mountings, fittings and similar\narticles suitable for motor vehicles :', '', ''], ['6955', '8302.30.10', '- - Hasps', '0%', 'E0'], ['6956', '8302.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other mountings, fittings and similar\narticles :', '', ''], ['', '8302.41', '- - Suitable for buildings :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Hasps and staples for doors; hooks\nand eyes; bolts :', '', ''], ['6957', '8302.41.31', '- - - - Hasps', '0%', 'E0'], ['6958', '8302.41.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6959', '8302.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8302.42', '- - Other, suitable for furniture :', '', ''], ['6960', '8302.42.20', '- - - Hasps', '0%', 'E0'], ['6961', '8302.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8302.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6962', '8302.49.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for saddlery', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['6963', '8302.49.91', '- - - - Hasps', '0%', 'E0'], ['6964', '8302.49.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['6965', '8302.50.00', '- Hat-racks, hat-pegs, brackets and similar\nfixtures', '0%', 'E0'], ['6966', '8302.60.00', '- Automatic door closers', '0%', 'E0'], ['6967', '8303.00.00', 'Armoured or reinforced safes, strong-\nboxes and doors and safe deposit\nlockers for strong-rooms, cash or deed\nboxes and the like, of base metal.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.04', 'Filing cabinets, card-index cabinets,\npaper trays, paper rests, pen trays,\noffice-stamp stands and similar office\nor desk equipment, of base metal, other\nthan office furniture of heading 94.03.', '', ''], ['6968', '8304.00.10', '- Filing cabinets and card-index cabinets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6969', '8304.00.91', '- - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['6970', '8304.00.92', '- - Of nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6971', '8304.00.93', '- - Of copper or of lead', '0%', 'E0'], ['6972', '8304.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.05', 'Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files,\nletter clips, letter corners, paper clips,\nindexing tags and similar office articles,\nof base metal; staples in strips (for\nexample, for offices, upholstery,\npackaging), of base metal.', '', ''], ['', '8305.10', '- Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files :', '', ''], ['6973', '8305.10.10', '- - For double loop wire binders', '0%', 'E0'], ['6974', '8305.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8305.20', '- Staples in strips :', '', ''], ['6975', '8305.20.10', '- - Of a kind for office use', '0%', 'E0'], ['6976', '8305.20.20', '- - Other, of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6977', '8305.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8305.90', '- Other, including parts :', '', ''], ['6978', '8305.90.10', '- - Paper clips', '0%', 'E0'], ['6979', '8305.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.06', 'Bells, gongs and the like, non-electric,\nof base metal; statuettes and other\nornaments, of base metal; photograph,\npicture or similar frames, of base\nmetal; mirrors of base metal.', '', ''], ['6980', '8306.10.00', '- Bells, gongs and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Statuettes and other ornaments :', '', ''], ['6981', '8306.21.00', '- - Plated with precious metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8306.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6982', '8306.29.10', '- - - Of copper or of lead', '0%', 'E0'], ['6983', '8306.29.20', '- - - Of nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6984', '8306.29.30', '- - - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['6985', '8306.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8306.30', '- Photograph, picture or similar frames;\nmirrors :', '', ''], ['6986', '8306.30.10', '- - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['6987', '8306.30.91', '- - - Metallic mirrors reflecting traffic\nviews at road intersections or sharp\ncorners', '0%', 'E0'], ['6988', '8306.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.07', 'Flexible tubing of base metal, with or\nwithout fittings.', '', ''], ['6989', '8307.10.00', '- Of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['6990', '8307.90.00', '- Of other base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.08', 'Clasps, frames with clasps, buckles,\nbuckle-clasps, hooks, eyes, eyelets and\nthe like, of base metal, of a kind used\nfor clothing or clothing accessories,\nfootwear, jewellery, wrist-watches,\nbooks, awnings, leather goods, travel\ngoods or saddlery or for other made up\narticles; tubular or bifurcated rivets, of\nbase metal; beads and spangles, of base\nmetal.', '', ''], ['6991', '8308.10.00', '- Hooks, eyes and eyelets', '0%', 'E0'], ['6992', '8308.20.00', '- Tubular or bifurcated rivets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8308.90', '- Other, including parts :', '', ''], ['6993', '8308.90.10', '- - Beads', '0%', 'E0'], ['6994', '8308.90.20', '- - Spangles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6995', '8308.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.09', 'Stoppers, caps and lids (including\ncrown corks, screw caps and pouring\nstoppers), capsules for bottles, threaded\nbungs, bung covers, seals and other\npacking accessories, of base metal.', '', ''], ['6996', '8309.10.00', '- Crown corks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8309.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['6997', '8309.90.10', '- - Capsules for bottles', '0%', 'E0'], ['6998', '8309.90.20', '- - Top ends of aluminium cans', '0%', 'E0'], ['6999', '8309.90.60', '- - Aerosol can ends, of tinplate', '0%', 'E0'], ['7000', '8309.90.70', '- - Other caps for cans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, of aluminium :', '', ''], ['7001', '8309.90.81', '- - - Bottle caps; screw caps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7002', '8309.90.89', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7003', '8309.90.91', '- - - Bottle caps; screw caps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7004', '8309.90.92', '- - - Bungs for metal drums; bung covers;\nseals; case corner protectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['7005', '8309.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7006', '8310.00.00', 'Sign-plates, name-plates, address-plates\nand similar plates, numbers, letters and\nother symbols, of base metal, excluding\nthose of heading 94.05.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '83.11', 'Wire, rods, tubes, plates, electrodes and\nsimilar products, of base metal or of\nmetal carbides, coated or cored with\nflux material, of a kind used for\nsoldering, brazing, welding or\ndeposition of metal or of metal\ncarbides; wire and rods, of\nagglomerated base metal powder, used\nfor metal spraying.', '', ''], ['', '8311.10', '- Coated electrodes of base metal, for\nelectric arc-welding :', '', ''], ['7007', '8311.10.10', '- - In rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['7008', '8311.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8311.20', '- Cored wire of base metal, for electric\narc-welding :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Cored wire of alloy steel, containing\nby weight 4.5 % or more of carbon and\n20 % or more of chromium :', '', ''], ['7009', '8311.20.21', '- - - In rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['7010', '8311.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7011', '8311.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8311.30', '- Coated rods and cored wire, of base\nmetal, for soldering, brazing or welding\nby flame :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Cored wire of alloy steel, containing\nby weight 4.5 % or more of carbon and\n20 % or more of chromium :', '', ''], ['7012', '8311.30.21', '- - - In rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['7013', '8311.30.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7014', '8311.30.91', '- - - In rolls', '0%', 'E0'], ['7015', '8311.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7016', '8311.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.01', 'Nuclear reactors; fuel elements\n(cartridges), non-irradiated, for nuclear\nreactors; machinery and apparatus for\nisotopic separation.', '', ''], ['7017', '8401.10.00', '- Nuclear reactors', '0%', 'E0'], ['7018', '8401.20.00', '- Machinery and apparatus for isotopic\nseparation, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7019', '8401.30.00', '- Fuel elements (cartridges), non-\nirradiated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7020', '8401.40.00', '- Parts of nuclear reactors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.02', 'Steam or other vapour generating\nboilers (other than central heating hot\nwater boilers capable also of producing\nlow pressure steam); super-heated\nwater boilers.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Steam or other vapour generating\nboilers :', '', ''], ['', '8402.11', '- - Watertube boilers with a steam\nproduction exceeding 45 t per hour :', '', ''], ['7021', '8402.11.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7022', '8402.11.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8402.12', '- - Watertube boilers with a steam\nproduction not exceeding 45 t per hour :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7023', '8402.12.11', '- - - - Boilers with a steam production\nexceeding 15 t per hour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7024', '8402.12.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7025', '8402.12.21', '- - - - Boilers with a steam production\nexceeding 15 t per hour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7026', '8402.12.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8402.19', '- - Other vapour generating boilers,\nincluding hybrid boilers :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7027', '8402.19.11', '- - - - Boilers with a steam production\nexceeding 15 t per hour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7028', '8402.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7029', '8402.19.21', '- - - - Boilers with a steam production\nexceeding 15 t per hour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7030', '8402.19.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8402.20', '- Super-heated water boilers :', '', ''], ['7031', '8402.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7032', '8402.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8402.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7033', '8402.90.10', '- - Boiler bodies, shells or casings', '0%', 'E0'], ['7034', '8402.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.03', 'Central heating boilers other than\nthose of heading 84.02.', '', ''], ['7035', '8403.10.00', '- Boilers', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8403.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7036', '8403.90.10', '- - Boiler bodies, shells or casings', '5%', 'E10'], ['7037', '8403.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '84.04', 'Auxiliary plant for use with boilers of\nheading 84.02 or 84.03 (for example,\neconomisers, super-heaters, soot\nremovers, gas recoverers); condensers\nfor steam or other vapour power units.', '', ''], ['', '8404.10', '- Auxiliary plant for use with boilers of\nheading 84.02 or 84.03 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For use with boilers of heading 84.02 :', '', ''], ['7038', '8404.10.11', '- - - Soot removers (soot blowers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7039', '8404.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7040', '8404.10.20', '- - For use with boilers of heading 84.03', '0%', 'E0'], ['7041', '8404.20.00', '- Condensers for steam or other vapour\npower units', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8404.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of goods of subheadings 8404.10.11\nand 8404.10.19 :', '', ''], ['7042', '8404.90.11', '- - - Bodies, shells or casings', '0%', 'E0'], ['7043', '8404.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of goods of subheading 8404.10.20 :', '', ''], ['7044', '8404.90.21', '- - - Bodies, shells or casings', '0%', 'E0'], ['7045', '8404.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7046', '8404.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.05', 'Producer gas or water gas generators,\nwith or without their purifiers;\nacetylene gas generators and similar\nwater process gas generators, with or\nwithout their purifiers.', '', ''], ['7047', '8405.10.00', '- Producer gas or water gas generators,\nwith or without their purifiers; acetylene\ngas generators and similar water process\ngas generators, with or without their\npurifiers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7048', '8405.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.06', 'Steam turbines and other vapour\nturbines.', '', ''], ['7049', '8406.10.00', '- Turbines for marine propulsion', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other turbines :', '', ''], ['7050', '8406.81.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 40 MW', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8406.82', '- - Of an output not exceeding 40 MW :', '', ''], ['7051', '8406.82.10', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 5 MW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7052', '8406.82.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7053', '8406.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.07', 'Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary\ninternal combustion piston engines.', '', ''], ['7054', '8407.10.00', '- Aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Marine propulsion engines :', '', ''], ['', '8407.21', '- - Outboard motors :', '', ''], ['7055', '8407.21.10', '- - - Of a power not exceeding 22.38 kW\n(30 hp)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7056', '8407.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8407.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7057', '8407.29.20', '- - - Of a power not exceeding 22.38 kW\n(30 hp)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7058', '8407.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Reciprocating piston engines of a kind\nused for the propulsion of vehicles of\nChapter 87 :', '', ''], ['7059', '8407.31.00', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n50 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8407.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc\nbut not exceeding 250 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Exceeding 50 cc but not exceeding\n110 cc :', '', ''], ['7060', '8407.32.11', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E10'], ['7061', '8407.32.12', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '5%', 'E10'], ['7062', '8407.32.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Exceeding 110 cc but not exceeding\n250 cc :', '', ''], ['7063', '8407.32.21', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E10'], ['7064', '8407.32.22', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '5%', 'E10'], ['7065', '8407.32.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8407.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250\ncc but not exceeding 1,000 cc :', '', ''], ['7066', '8407.33.10', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E10'], ['7067', '8407.33.20', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '5%', 'E10'], ['7068', '8407.33.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8407.34', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fully assembled :', '', ''], ['7069', '8407.34.40', '- - - - For pedestrian controlled tractors, of\na cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,100\ncc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7070', '8407.34.50', '- - - - For other vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['7071', '8407.34.60', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['7072', '8407.34.71', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['7073', '8407.34.72', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['7074', '8407.34.73', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7075', '8407.34.91', '- - - - For pedestrian controlled tractors, of\na cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,100\ncc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7076', '8407.34.92', '- - - - For other vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['7077', '8407.34.93', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['7078', '8407.34.94', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['7079', '8407.34.95', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['7080', '8407.34.99', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8407.90', '- Other engines :', '', ''], ['7081', '8407.90.10', '- - Of a power not exceeding 18.65 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7082', '8407.90.20', '- - Of a power exceeding 18.65 kW but\nnot exceeding 22.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7083', '8407.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.08', 'Compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engines (diesel or\nsemi-diesel engines).', '', ''], ['', '8408.10', '- Marine propulsion engines :', '', ''], ['7084', '8408.10.10', '- - Of a power not exceeding 22.38 kW', '5%', 'E10'], ['7085', '8408.10.20', '- - Of a power exceeding 22.38 kW but\nnot exceeding 100 kW', '5%', 'E10'], ['7086', '8408.10.30', '- - Of a power exceeding 100 kW but not\nexceeding 750 kW', '5%', 'E10'], ['7087', '8408.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8408.20', '- Engines of a kind used for the\npropulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Fully assembled :', '', ''], ['7088', '8408.20.10', '- - - For vehicles of subheading 8701.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7089', '8408.20.21', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7090', '8408.20.22', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 3,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7091', '8408.20.23', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7092', '8408.20.93', '- - - For vehicles of subheading 8701.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7093', '8408.20.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7094', '8408.20.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 3,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['7095', '8408.20.96', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8408.90', '- Other engines :', '', ''], ['7096', '8408.90.10', '- - Of a power not exceeding 18.65 kW', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a power exceeding 100 kW :', '', ''], ['7097', '8408.90.51', '- - - Of a kind used for machinery of\nheading 84.29 or 84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['7098', '8408.90.52', '- - - Of a kind used for railway\nlocomotives or tramway vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['7099', '8408.90.59', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7100', '8408.90.91', '- - - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['7101', '8408.90.92', '- - - Of a kind used for railway\nlocomotives or tramway vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['7102', '8408.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '84.09', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the engines of heading\n84.07 or 84.08.', '', ''], ['7103', '8409.10.00', '- For aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8409.91', '- - Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith spark-ignition internal combustion\npiston engines :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30 :', '', ''], ['7104', '8409.91.11', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7105', '8409.91.12', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7106', '8409.91.13', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7107', '8409.91.14', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7108', '8409.91.15', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7109', '8409.91.16', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7110', '8409.91.17', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7111', '8409.91.18', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7112', '8409.91.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01 :', '', ''], ['7113', '8409.91.21', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7114', '8409.91.22', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7115', '8409.91.23', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7116', '8409.91.24', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7117', '8409.91.26', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7118', '8409.91.28', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7119', '8409.91.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.11 :', '', ''], ['7120', '8409.91.31', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7121', '8409.91.32', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7122', '8409.91.34', '- - - - Cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7123', '8409.91.35', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7124', '8409.91.37', '- - - - Pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7125', '8409.91.38', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7126', '8409.91.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For other vehicles of Chapter 87 :', '', ''], ['7127', '8409.91.41', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7128', '8409.91.42', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7129', '8409.91.43', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7130', '8409.91.44', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7131', '8409.91.45', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7132', '8409.91.46', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7133', '8409.91.47', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7134', '8409.91.48', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7135', '8409.91.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For vessels of Chapter 89 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - For marine propulsion engines of a\npower not exceeding 22.38 kW :', '', ''], ['7136', '8409.91.51', '- - - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7137', '8409.91.52', '- - - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7138', '8409.91.53', '- - - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7139', '8409.91.54', '- - - - - Pistons, with an external diameter\nof 50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7140', '8409.91.55', '- - - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7141', '8409.91.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - For marine propulsion engines of a\npower exceeding 22.38 kW :', '', ''], ['7142', '8409.91.61', '- - - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7143', '8409.91.62', '- - - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7144', '8409.91.63', '- - - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7145', '8409.91.64', '- - - - - Pistons, with an external diameter\nof 50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7146', '8409.91.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For other engines :', '', ''], ['7147', '8409.91.71', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7148', '8409.91.72', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7149', '8409.91.73', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7150', '8409.91.74', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7151', '8409.91.76', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7152', '8409.91.77', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7153', '8409.91.78', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7154', '8409.91.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8409.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For engines of machinery of heading\n84.29 or 84.30 :', '', ''], ['7155', '8409.99.11', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7156', '8409.99.12', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7157', '8409.99.13', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7158', '8409.99.14', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7159', '8409.99.15', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7160', '8409.99.16', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7161', '8409.99.17', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7162', '8409.99.18', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7163', '8409.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.01 :', '', ''], ['7164', '8409.99.21', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7165', '8409.99.22', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7166', '8409.99.23', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7167', '8409.99.24', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7168', '8409.99.25', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7169', '8409.99.26', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7170', '8409.99.27', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7171', '8409.99.28', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7172', '8409.99.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.11 :', '', ''], ['7173', '8409.99.31', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7174', '8409.99.32', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7175', '8409.99.33', '- - - - Cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7176', '8409.99.34', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7177', '8409.99.35', '- - - - Pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7178', '8409.99.36', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7179', '8409.99.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For engines of other vehicles of\nChapter 87 :', '', ''], ['7180', '8409.99.41', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7181', '8409.99.42', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7182', '8409.99.43', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7183', '8409.99.44', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7184', '8409.99.45', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7185', '8409.99.46', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7186', '8409.99.47', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7187', '8409.99.48', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7188', '8409.99.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For engines of vessels of Chapter 89 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - For marine propulsion engines of a\npower not exceeding 22.38 kW :', '', ''], ['7189', '8409.99.51', '- - - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7190', '8409.99.52', '- - - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7191', '8409.99.53', '- - - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7192', '8409.99.54', '- - - - - Pistons, with an external diameter\nof 50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7193', '8409.99.55', '- - - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7194', '8409.99.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - For marine propulsion engines of a\npower exceeding 22.38 kW :', '', ''], ['7195', '8409.99.61', '- - - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7196', '8409.99.62', '- - - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7197', '8409.99.63', '- - - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7198', '8409.99.64', '- - - - - Pistons, with an external diameter\nof 50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7199', '8409.99.65', '- - - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7200', '8409.99.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For other engines :', '', ''], ['7201', '8409.99.71', '- - - - Carburettors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7202', '8409.99.72', '- - - - Cylinder blocks; crank cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['7203', '8409.99.73', '- - - - Cylinder liners, with an internal\ndiameter of 50 mm or more, but not\nexceeding 155 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7204', '8409.99.74', '- - - - Other cylinder liners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7205', '8409.99.75', '- - - - Cylinder heads and head covers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7206', '8409.99.76', '- - - - Pistons, with an external diameter of\n50 mm or more, but not exceeding 155\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7207', '8409.99.77', '- - - - Other pistons', '0%', 'E0'], ['7208', '8409.99.78', '- - - - Piston rings and gudgeon pins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7209', '8409.99.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.10', 'Hydraulic turbines, water wheels, and\nregulators therefor.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Hydraulic turbines and water wheels :', '', ''], ['7210', '8410.11.00', '- - Of a power not exceeding 1,000 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7211', '8410.12.00', '- - Of a power exceeding 1,000 kW but\nnot exceeding 10,000 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7212', '8410.13.00', '- - Of a power exceeding 10,000 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7213', '8410.90.00', '- Parts, including regulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.11', 'Turbo-jets, turbo-propellers and other\ngas turbines.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Turbo-jets :', '', ''], ['7214', '8411.11.00', '- - Of a thrust not exceeding 25 kN', '0%', 'E0'], ['7215', '8411.12.00', '- - Of a thrust exceeding 25 kN', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Turbo-propellers :', '', ''], ['7216', '8411.21.00', '- - Of a power not exceeding 1,100 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7217', '8411.22.00', '- - Of a power exceeding 1,100 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other gas turbines :', '', ''], ['7218', '8411.81.00', '- - Of a power not exceeding 5,000 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7219', '8411.82.00', '- - Of a power exceeding 5,000 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7220', '8411.91.00', '- - Of turbo-jets or turbo-propellers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7221', '8411.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.12', 'Other engines and motors.', '', ''], ['7222', '8412.10.00', '- Reaction engines other than turbo-jets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Hydraulic power engines and motors :', '', ''], ['7223', '8412.21.00', '- - Linear acting (cylinders)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7224', '8412.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Pneumatic power engines and motors :', '', ''], ['7225', '8412.31.00', '- - Linear acting (cylinders)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7226', '8412.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7227', '8412.80.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8412.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7228', '8412.90.10', '- - Of engines of subheading 8412.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7229', '8412.90.20', '- - For steam or other vapour power units\nincorporating boilers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7230', '8412.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.13', 'Pumps for liquids, whether or not fitted\nwith a measuring device; liquid\nelevators.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Pumps fitted or designed to be fitted\nwith a measuring device :', '', ''], ['7231', '8413.11.00', '- - Pumps for dispensing fuel or\nlubricants, of the type used in filling-\nstations or in garages', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7232', '8413.19.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7233', '8413.19.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.20', '- Hand pumps, other than those of\nsubheading 8413.11 or 8413.19 :', '', ''], ['7234', '8413.20.10', '- - Water pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7235', '8413.20.20', '- - Breast pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7236', '8413.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.30', '- Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium\npumps for internal combustion piston\nengines :', '', ''], ['7237', '8413.30.30', '- - Fuel pumps of a kind used for engines\nof motor vehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03\nor 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['7238', '8413.30.40', '- - Water pumps of a kind used for\nengines of motor vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, centrifugal type :', '', ''], ['7239', '8413.30.51', '- - - With an inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7240', '8413.30.52', '- - - With an inlet diameter exceeding 200\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7241', '8413.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7242', '8413.40.00', '- Concrete pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.50', '- Other reciprocating positive\ndisplacement pumps :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Water pumps, with a flow rate not\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h :', '', ''], ['7243', '8413.50.31', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7244', '8413.50.32', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7245', '8413.50.40', '- - Water pumps, with a flow rate\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h but not exceeding\n13,000 m3/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['7246', '8413.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.60', '- Other rotary positive displacement\npumps :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Water pumps, with a flow rate not\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h :', '', ''], ['7247', '8413.60.31', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7248', '8413.60.32', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7249', '8413.60.40', '- - Water pumps, with a flow rate\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h but not exceeding\n13,000 m3/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['7250', '8413.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.70', '- Other centrifugal pumps :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Single stage, single suction horizontal\nshaft water pumps suitable for belt drive\nor direct coupling, other than pumps with\nshafts common with the prime mover :', '', ''], ['7251', '8413.70.11', '- - - With an inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7252', '8413.70.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Submersible water pumps :', '', ''], ['7253', '8413.70.31', '- - - With an inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm', '5%', 'E7'], ['7254', '8413.70.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Other water pumps, with a flow rate\nnot exceeding 8,000 m3/h :', '', ''], ['7255', '8413.70.42', '- - - With inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm, electrically operated', '5%', 'E7'], ['7256', '8413.70.43', '- - - With inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm, not electrically operated', '5%', 'E7'], ['7257', '8413.70.49', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Other water pumps, with a flow rate\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h but not exceeding\n13,000 m3/h :', '', ''], ['7258', '8413.70.51', '- - - With an inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm', '5%', 'E7'], ['7259', '8413.70.59', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7260', '8413.70.91', '- - - With an inlet diameter not exceeding\n200 mm', '5%', 'E7'], ['7261', '8413.70.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '', '- Other pumps; liquid elevators :', '', ''], ['', '8413.81', '- - Pumps :', '', ''], ['7262', '8413.81.13', '- - - Water pumps with a flow rate not\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h, electrically\noperated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7263', '8413.81.14', '- - - Water pumps with a flow rate not\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h, not electrically\noperated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7264', '8413.81.15', '- - - Water pumps, with a flow rate\nexceeding 8,000 m3/h but not exceeding\n13,000 m3/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['7265', '8413.81.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8413.82', '- - Liquid elevators :', '', ''], ['7266', '8413.82.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7267', '8413.82.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '8413.91', '- - Of pumps :', '', ''], ['7268', '8413.91.10', '- - - Of pumps of subheading 8413.20.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7269', '8413.91.20', '- - - Of pumps of subheadings 8413.20.20\nand 8413.20.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7270', '8413.91.30', '- - - Of pumps of subheadings 8413.70.11\nand 8413.70.19', '0%', 'E0'], ['7271', '8413.91.40', '- - - Of other centrifugal pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7272', '8413.91.90', '- - - Of other pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7273', '8413.92.00', '- - Of liquid elevators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.14', 'Air or vacuum pumps, air or other gas\ncompressors and fans; ventilating or\nrecycling hoods incorporating a fan,\nwhether or not fitted with filters.', '', ''], ['7274', '8414.10.00', '- Vacuum pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8414.20', '- Hand- or foot-operated air pumps :', '', ''], ['7275', '8414.20.10', '- - Bicycle pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7276', '8414.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8414.30', '- Compressors of a kind used in\nrefrigerating equipment :', '', ''], ['7277', '8414.30.40', '- - With a refrigeration capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW, or with a displacement per\nrevolution of 220 cc or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['7278', '8414.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7279', '8414.40.00', '- Air compressors mounted on a wheeled\nchassis for towing', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Fans :', '', ''], ['', '8414.51', '- - Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or\nroof fans, with a self-contained electric\nmotor of an output not exceeding 125 W :', '', ''], ['7280', '8414.51.10', '- - - Table fans and box fans', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7281', '8414.51.91', '- - - - With protective screen', '5%', 'EX'], ['7282', '8414.51.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8414.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a capacity not exceeding 125 kW :', '', ''], ['7283', '8414.59.20', '- - - - Explosion-proof air fans, of a kind\nused in underground mining', '0%', 'E0'], ['7284', '8414.59.30', '- - - - Blowers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['7285', '8414.59.41', '- - - - - With protective screen', '0%', 'E0'], ['7286', '8414.59.49', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7287', '8414.59.50', '- - - - Blowers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['7288', '8414.59.91', '- - - - - With protective screen', '0%', 'E0'], ['7289', '8414.59.92', '- - - - - Explosion-proof air fans, of a kind\nused in underground mining', '0%', 'E0'], ['7290', '8414.59.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8414.60', '- Hoods having a maximum horizontal\nside not exceeding 120 cm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Fitted with filters :', '', ''], ['7291', '8414.60.11', '- - - Laminar airflow cabinets', '0%', 'E0'], ['7292', '8414.60.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not fitted with a filter :', '', ''], ['7293', '8414.60.91', '- - - Suitable for industrial use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7294', '8414.60.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8414.80', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Hoods having a maximum horizontal\nside exceeding 120 cm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Fitted with filters :', '', ''], ['7295', '8414.80.11', '- - - - Laminar airflow cabinets', '0%', 'E0'], ['7296', '8414.80.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not fitted with a filter :', '', ''], ['7297', '8414.80.21', '- - - - Suitable for industrial use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7298', '8414.80.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7299', '8414.80.30', '- - Free-piston generators for gas turbines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Compressors other than those of\nsubheading 8414.30 or 8414.40 :', '', ''], ['7300', '8414.80.41', '- - - Gas compression modules suitable\nfor use in oil drilling operations', '0%', 'E0'], ['7301', '8414.80.42', '- - - Of a kind used for automotive air\nconditioners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7302', '8414.80.43', '- - - Sealed units for air conditioning\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7303', '8414.80.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7304', '8414.80.50', '- - Air pumps', '0%', 'E0'], ['7305', '8414.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8414.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of fans :', '', ''], ['7306', '8414.90.21', '- - - Of goods of heading 84.15, 84.18,\n85.09 or 85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['7307', '8414.90.22', '- - - Of blowers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7308', '8414.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of hoods :', '', ''], ['7309', '8414.90.31', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8414.60', '0%', 'E0'], ['7310', '8414.90.32', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8414.80', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of goods of subheading 8414.10 :', '', ''], ['7311', '8414.90.41', '- - - For electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7312', '8414.90.42', '- - - For non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7313', '8414.90.50', '- - Of goods of subheading 8414.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['7314', '8414.90.60', '- - Of goods of subheading 8414.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of goods of subheading 8414.40 :', '', ''], ['7315', '8414.90.71', '- - - For electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7316', '8414.90.72', '- - - For non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of other pumps or compressors :', '', ''], ['7317', '8414.90.91', '- - - For electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7318', '8414.90.92', '- - - For non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.15', 'Air conditioning machines, comprising\na motor-driven fan and elements for\nchanging the temperature and\nhumidity, including those machines in\nwhich the humidity cannot be\nseparately regulated.', '', ''], ['', '8415.10', '- Of a kind designed to be fixed to a\nwindow, wall, ceiling or floor, self-\ncontained or “split-system” :', '', ''], ['7319', '8415.10.10', '- - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '26.38 kW', '', ''], ['7320', '8415.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8415.20', '- Of a kind used for persons, in motor\nvehicles :', '', ''], ['7321', '8415.20.10', '- - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7322', '8415.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8415.81', '- - Incorporating a refrigerating unit and a\nvalve for reversal of the cooling/heat\ncycle (reversible heat pumps) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in aircraft :', '', ''], ['7323', '8415.81.11', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n21.10 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7324', '8415.81.12', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW and with an air flow rate of\neach evaporator unit exceeding 67.96\nm3/min', '0%', 'E0'], ['7325', '8415.81.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in railway rolling\nstock :', '', ''], ['7326', '8415.81.21', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7327', '8415.81.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in motor vehicles\n(other than those of subheading 8415.20) :', '', ''], ['7328', '8415.81.31', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7329', '8415.81.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7330', '8415.81.91', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW and with an air flow rate of\neach evaporator unit exceeding 67.96\nm3/min', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['7331', '8415.81.93', '- - - - - Of a cooling capacity not\nexceeding 21.10 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7332', '8415.81.94', '- - - - - Of a cooling capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW but not exceeding 26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7333', '8415.81.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8415.82', '- - Other, incorporating a refrigerating\nunit :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in aircraft :', '', ''], ['7334', '8415.82.11', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW and with an air flow rate of\neach evaporator unit exceeding 67.96\nm3/min', '0%', 'E0'], ['7335', '8415.82.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in railway rolling\nstock :', '', ''], ['7336', '8415.82.21', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7337', '8415.82.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in motor vehicles\n(other than those of subheading 8415.20) :', '', ''], ['7338', '8415.82.31', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7339', '8415.82.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7340', '8415.82.91', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7341', '8415.82.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8415.83', '- - Not incorporating a refrigerating unit :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in aircraft :', '', ''], ['7342', '8415.83.11', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity exceeding\n21.10 kW and with an air flow rate of\neach evaporator unit exceeding 67.96\nm3/min', '0%', 'E0'], ['7343', '8415.83.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in railway rolling\nstock :', '', ''], ['7344', '8415.83.21', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7345', '8415.83.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in motor vehicles\n(other than those of subheading 8415.20) :', '', ''], ['7346', '8415.83.31', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7347', '8415.83.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7348', '8415.83.91', '- - - - Of a cooling capacity not exceeding\n26.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7349', '8415.83.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8415.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of machines with a cooling capacity\nnot exceeding 21.10 kW :', '', ''], ['7350', '8415.90.13', '- - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7351', '8415.90.14', '- - - Evaporators or condensers for air-\nconditioning machines for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['7352', '8415.90.15', '- - - Chassis, welded and painted, other\nthan of subheading 8415.90.13', '0%', 'E0'], ['7353', '8415.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines with a cooling capacity\nexceeding 21.10 kW but not exceeding\n26.38 kW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - With an air flow rate of each\nevaporator unit exceeding 67.96 m3/min :', '', ''], ['7354', '8415.90.24', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7355', '8415.90.25', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7356', '8415.90.26', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7357', '8415.90.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines with a cooling capacity\nexceeding 26.38 kW but not exceeding\n52.75 kW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - With an air flow rate of each\nevaporator unit exceeding 67.96 m3/min :', '', ''], ['7358', '8415.90.34', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7359', '8415.90.35', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7360', '8415.90.36', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7361', '8415.90.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines with a cooling capacity\nexceeding 52.75 kW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - With an air flow rate of each\nevaporator unit exceeding 67.96 m3/min :', '', ''], ['7362', '8415.90.44', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7363', '8415.90.45', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7364', '8415.90.46', '- - - - Of a kind used in aircraft or railway\nrolling stock', '0%', 'E0'], ['7365', '8415.90.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.16', 'Furnace burners for liquid fuel, for\npulverised solid fuel or for gas;\nmechanical stokers, including their\nmechanical grates, mechanical ash\ndischargers and similar appliances.', '', ''], ['7366', '8416.10.00', '- Furnace burners for liquid fuel', '0%', 'E0'], ['7367', '8416.20.00', '- Other furnace burners, including\ncombination burners', '0%', 'E0'], ['7368', '8416.30.00', '- Mechanical stokers, including their\nmechanical grates, mechanical ash\ndischargers and similar appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['7369', '8416.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.17', 'Industrial or laboratory furnaces and\novens, including incinerators, non-\nelectric.', '', ''], ['7370', '8417.10.00', '- Furnaces and ovens for the roasting,\nmelting or other heat-treatment of ores,\npyrites or of metals', '0%', 'E0'], ['7371', '8417.20.00', '- Bakery ovens, including biscuit ovens', '0%', 'E0'], ['7372', '8417.80.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7373', '8417.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.18', 'Refrigerators, freezers and other\nrefrigerating or freezing equipment,\nelectric or other; heat pumps other\nthan air conditioning machines of\nheading 84.15.', '', ''], ['', '8418.10', '- Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted\nwith separate external doors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Household type :', '', ''], ['7374', '8418.10.11', '- - - Of a capacity not exceeding 230 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['7375', '8418.10.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['7376', '8418.10.20', '- - Other, of a capacity not exceeding 350\nl', '5%', 'E15'], ['7377', '8418.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- Refrigerators, household type :', '', ''], ['', '8418.21', '- - Compression-type :', '', ''], ['7378', '8418.21.10', '- - - Of a capacity not exceeding 230 l', '5%', 'E15'], ['7379', '8418.21.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['7380', '8418.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '8418.30', '- Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding\n800 l capacity :', '', ''], ['7381', '8418.30.10', '- - Of a capacity not exceeding 200 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['7382', '8418.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8418.40', '- Freezers of the upright type, not\nexceeding 900 l capacity :', '', ''], ['7383', '8418.40.10', '- - Of a capacity not exceeding 200 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['7384', '8418.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8418.50', '- Other furniture (chests, cabinets, display\ncounters, show-cases and the like) for\nstorage and display, incorporating\nrefrigerating or freezing equipment :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Display counters, show-cases and the\nlike, incorporating refrigerating\nequipment, of a capacity exceeding 200 l :', '', ''], ['7385', '8418.50.11', '- - - Of a kind suitable for medical,\nsurgical or laboratory use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7386', '8418.50.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7387', '8418.50.91', '- - - Of a kind suitable for medical,\nsurgical or laboratory use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7388', '8418.50.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other refrigerating or freezing\nequipment; heat pumps :', '', ''], ['7389', '8418.61.00', '- - Heat pumps other than air conditioning\nmachines of heading 84.15', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8418.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7390', '8418.69.10', '- - - Beverage coolers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7391', '8418.69.30', '- - - Cold water dispenser', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Water chillers with a refrigeration\ncapacity exceeding 21.10 kW :', '', ''], ['7392', '8418.69.41', '- - - - For air conditioning machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7393', '8418.69.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7394', '8418.69.50', '- - - Scale ice-maker units', '0%', 'E0'], ['7395', '8418.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7396', '8418.91.00', '- - Furniture designed to receive\nrefrigerating or freezing equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8418.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7397', '8418.99.10', '- - - Evaporators or condensers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7398', '8418.99.40', '- - - Aluminium roll-bonded panels of a\nkind used for the goods of subheading\n8418.10.11, 8418.10.19, 8418.21.10,\n8418.21.90 or 8418.29.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['7399', '8418.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.19', 'Machinery, plant or laboratory\nequipment, whether or not electrically\nheated (excluding furnaces, ovens and\nother equipment of heading 85.14), for\nthe treatment of materials by a process\ninvolving a change of temperature such\nas heating, cooking, roasting, distilling,\nrectifying, sterilising, pasteurising,\nsteaming, drying, evaporating,\nvaporising, condensing or cooling,\nother than machinery or plant of a kind\nused for domestic purposes;\ninstantaneous or storage water heaters,\nnon-electric.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Instantaneous or storage water heaters,\nnon-electric :', '', ''], ['', '8419.11', '- - Instantaneous gas water heaters :', '', ''], ['7400', '8419.11.10', '- - - Household type', '0%', 'E0'], ['7401', '8419.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7402', '8419.19.10', '- - - Household type', '0%', 'E0'], ['7403', '8419.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7404', '8419.20.00', '- Medical, surgical or laboratory\nsterilisers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dryers :', '', ''], ['', '8419.31', '- - For agricultural products :', '', ''], ['7405', '8419.31.30', '- - - Evaporators', '0%', 'E0'], ['7406', '8419.31.40', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7407', '8419.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.32', '- - For wood, paper pulp, paper or\npaperboard :', '', ''], ['7408', '8419.32.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7409', '8419.32.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7410', '8419.39.11', '- - - - Machinery for the treatment of\nmaterials by a process involving heating,\nfor the manufacture of printed circuit\nboards, printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['7411', '8419.39.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7412', '8419.39.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.40', '- Distilling or rectifying plant :', '', ''], ['7413', '8419.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7414', '8419.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.50', '- Heat exchange units :', '', ''], ['7415', '8419.50.10', '- - Cooling towers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7416', '8419.50.91', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7417', '8419.50.92', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.60', '- Machinery for liquefying air or other\ngases :', '', ''], ['7418', '8419.60.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7419', '8419.60.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machinery, plant and equipment :', '', ''], ['', '8419.81', '- - For making hot drinks or for cooking\nor heating food :', '', ''], ['7420', '8419.81.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7421', '8419.81.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7422', '8419.89.13', '- - - - Machinery for the treatment of\nmaterial by a process involving heating,\nfor the manufacture of printed circuit\nboards, printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['7423', '8419.89.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7424', '8419.89.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8419.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of electrically operated articles :', '', ''], ['7425', '8419.90.12', '- - - Parts of machinery for the treatment\nof materials by a process involving\nheating, for the manufacture of printed\ncircuit boards, printed wiring boards or\nprinted circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['7426', '8419.90.13', '- - - Casings for cooling towers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7427', '8419.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of non-electrically operated articles :', '', ''], ['7428', '8419.90.22', '- - - Of instantaneous gas water heaters,\nhousehold type', '0%', 'E0'], ['7429', '8419.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.20', 'Calendering or other rolling machines,\nother than for metals or glass, and\ncylinders therefor.', '', ''], ['', '8420.10', '- Calendering or other rolling machines :', '', ''], ['7430', '8420.10.10', '- - Apparatus for the application of dry\nfilm or liquid photo resist, photo-sensitive\nlayers, soldering pastes, solder or\nadhesive materials on printed circuit\nboards or printed wiring boards or their\ncomponents', '0%', 'E0'], ['7431', '8420.10.20', '- - Ironing machines or wringers suitable\nfor domestic use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7432', '8420.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '8420.91', '- - Cylinders :', '', ''], ['7433', '8420.91.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8420.10.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7434', '8420.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8420.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7435', '8420.99.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8420.10.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7436', '8420.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.21', 'Centrifuges, including centrifugal\ndryers; filtering or purifying\nmachinery and apparatus for liquids or\ngases.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Centrifuges, including centrifugal\ndryers :', '', ''], ['7437', '8421.11.00', '- - Cream separators', '0%', 'E0'], ['7438', '8421.12.00', '- - Clothes-dryers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7439', '8421.19.10', '- - - Of a kind used for sugar manufacture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7440', '8421.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus for liquids :', '', ''], ['', '8421.21', '- - For filtering or purifying water :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a capacity not exceeding 500 l/h :', '', ''], ['7441', '8421.21.11', '- - - - Filtering machinery and apparatus\nfor domestic use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7442', '8421.21.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a capacity exceeding 500 l/h :', '', ''], ['7443', '8421.21.22', '- - - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7444', '8421.21.23', '- - - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.22', '- - For filtering or purifying beverages\nother than water :', '', ''], ['7445', '8421.22.30', '- - - Electrically operated, of a capacity\nexceeding 500 l/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['7446', '8421.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.23', '- - Oil or petrol-filters for internal\ncombustion engines :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30 :', '', ''], ['7447', '8421.23.11', '- - - - Oil filters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7448', '8421.23.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For motor vehicles of Chapter 87 :', '', ''], ['7449', '8421.23.21', '- - - - Oil filters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7450', '8421.23.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7451', '8421.23.91', '- - - - Oil filters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7452', '8421.23.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7453', '8421.29.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for medical,\nsurgical or laboratory use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7454', '8421.29.20', '- - - Of a kind used for sugar manufacture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7455', '8421.29.30', '- - - Of a kind used in oil drilling\noperations', '0%', 'E0'], ['7456', '8421.29.40', '- - - Other, petrol filters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7457', '8421.29.50', '- - - Other, oil filters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7458', '8421.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Filtering or purifying machinery and\napparatus for gases :', '', ''], ['', '8421.31', '- - Intake air filters for internal', '', ''], ['', '', 'combustion engines :', '', ''], ['7459', '8421.31.10', '- - - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['7460', '8421.31.20', '- - - For motor vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['7461', '8421.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7462', '8421.39.20', '- - - Air purifiers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7463', '8421.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '8421.91', '- - Of centrifuges, including centrifugal\ndryers :', '', ''], ['7464', '8421.91.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8421.12.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['7465', '8421.91.20', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8421.19.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7466', '8421.91.90', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8421.11.00\nor 8421.19.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8421.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Filtering cartridges for filters of\nsubheading 8421.23 :', '', ''], ['7467', '8421.99.21', '- - - - For subheading 8421.23.11 or\n8421.23.21', '0%', 'E0'], ['7468', '8421.99.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7469', '8421.99.30', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8421.31', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7470', '8421.99.91', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.29.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['7471', '8421.99.94', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.21.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['7472', '8421.99.96', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.23.11\nor 8421.23.91', '0%', 'E0'], ['7473', '8421.99.97', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.23.19\nor 8421.23.99', '0%', 'E0'], ['7474', '8421.99.98', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8421.29.50\nor 8421.39.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7475', '8421.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.22', 'Dish washing machines; machinery for\ncleaning or drying bottles or other\ncontainers; machinery for filling,\nclosing, sealing or labelling bottles,\ncans, boxes, bags or other containers;\nmachinery for capsuling bottles, jars,\ntubes and similar containers; other\npacking or wrapping machinery\n(including heat-shrink wrapping\nmachinery); machinery for aerating\nbeverages.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Dish washing machines :', '', ''], ['7476', '8422.11.00', '- - Of the household type', '0%', 'E0'], ['7477', '8422.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7478', '8422.20.00', '- Machinery for cleaning or drying bottles\nor other containers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7479', '8422.30.00', '- Machinery for filling, closing, sealing or\nlabelling bottles, cans, boxes, bags or\nother containers; machinery for capsuling\nbottles, jars, tubes and similar containers;', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'machinery for aerating beverages', '', ''], ['7480', '8422.40.00', '- Other packing or wrapping machinery\n(including heat-shrink wrapping\nmachinery)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8422.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7481', '8422.90.10', '- - Of machines of subheading 8422.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['7482', '8422.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.23', 'Weighing machinery (excluding\nbalances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or\nbetter), including weight operated\ncounting or checking machines;\nweighing machine weights of all kinds.', '', ''], ['', '8423.10', '- Personal weighing machines, including\nbaby scales; household scales :', '', ''], ['7483', '8423.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7484', '8423.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8423.20', '- Scales for continuous weighing of goods\non conveyors :', '', ''], ['7485', '8423.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7486', '8423.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8423.30', '- Constant weight scales and scales for\ndischarging a predetermined weight of\nmaterial into a bag or container, including\nhopper scales :', '', ''], ['7487', '8423.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7488', '8423.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other weighing machinery :', '', ''], ['', '8423.81', '- - Having a maximum weighing capacity\nnot exceeding 30 kg :', '', ''], ['7489', '8423.81.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7490', '8423.81.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8423.82', '- - Having a maximum weighing capacity\nexceeding 30 kg but not exceeding 5,000\nkg :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7491', '8423.82.11', '- - - - Having a maximum weighing\ncapacity not exceeding 1,000 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['7492', '8423.82.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7493', '8423.82.21', '- - - - Having a maximum weighing\ncapacity not exceeding 1,000 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['7494', '8423.82.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8423.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7495', '8423.89.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7496', '8423.89.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8423.90', '- Weighing machine weights of all kinds;\nparts of weighing machinery :', '', ''], ['7497', '8423.90.10', '- - Weighing machine weights', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other parts of weighing machinery :', '', ''], ['7498', '8423.90.21', '- - - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7499', '8423.90.29', '- - - Of non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.24', 'Mechanical appliances (whether or not\nhand-operated) for projecting,\ndispersing or spraying liquids or\npowders; fire extinguishers, whether or\nnot charged; spray guns and similar\nappliances; steam or sand blasting\nmachines and similar jet projecting\nmachines.', '', ''], ['', '8424.10', '- Fire extinguishers, whether or not\ncharged :', '', ''], ['7500', '8424.10.10', '- - Of a kind suitable for aircraft use', '0%', 'E0'], ['7501', '8424.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8424.20', '- Spray guns and similar appliances :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7502', '8424.20.11', '- - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7503', '8424.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7504', '8424.20.21', '- - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7505', '8424.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7506', '8424.30.00', '- Steam or sand blasting machines and\nsimilar jet projecting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Agricultural or horticultural sprayers :', '', ''], ['', '8424.41', '- - Portable sprayers :', '', ''], ['7507', '8424.41.10', '- - - Hand-operated insecticide sprayers', '5%', 'E3'], ['7508', '8424.41.20', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '5%', 'E3'], ['7509', '8424.41.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '8424.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7510', '8424.49.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '5%', 'E3'], ['7511', '8424.49.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '', '- Other appliances :', '', ''], ['', '8424.82', '- - Agricultural or horticultural :', '', ''], ['7512', '8424.82.10', '- - - Drip irrigation systems', '5%', 'E3'], ['7513', '8424.82.20', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '5%', 'E3'], ['7514', '8424.82.30', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '5%', 'E3'], ['', '8424.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7515', '8424.89.10', '- - - Hand-operated household sprayers of\na capacity not exceeding 3 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['7516', '8424.89.20', '- - - Spray heads with dip tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['7517', '8424.89.40', '- - - Wet processing equipment, by\nprojecting, dispersing or spraying, of\nchemical or electrochemical solutions for\nthe application on printed circuit boards\nor printed wiring boards substrates;\napparatus for the spot application of\nliquids, soldering pastes, solder ball,\nadhesives or sealant to printed circuit\nboards or printed wiring boards or their\ncomponents; apparatus for the application\nof dry film or liquid photo resist, photo', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'sensitive layers, soldering pastes, solder\nor adhesive materials on printed circuit\nboards or printed wiring boards substrates\nor their components', '', ''], ['7518', '8424.89.50', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7519', '8424.89.90', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8424.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7520', '8424.90.10', '- - Of fire extinguishers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of spray guns and similar appliances :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7521', '8424.90.21', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8424.20.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['7522', '8424.90.23', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7523', '8424.90.24', '- - - - Of goods of subheading 8424.20.21', '0%', 'E0'], ['7524', '8424.90.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7525', '8424.90.30', '- - Of steam or sand blasting machines\nand similar jet projecting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of other appliances :', '', ''], ['7526', '8424.90.93', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8424.82.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7527', '8424.90.94', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8424.41.10,\n8424.41.20, 8424.49.20 or 8424.82.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['7528', '8424.90.95', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8424.41.90,\n8424.49.10 or 8424.82.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['7529', '8424.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.25', 'Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip\nhoists; winches and capstans; jacks.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip\nhoists or hoists of a kind used for raising\nvehicles :', '', ''], ['7530', '8425.11.00', '- - Powered by electric motor', '0%', 'E0'], ['7531', '8425.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Winches; capstans :', '', ''], ['7532', '8425.31.00', '- - Powered by electric motor', '0%', 'E0'], ['7533', '8425.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Jacks; hoists of a kind used for raising\nvehicles :', '', ''], ['7534', '8425.41.00', '- - Built-in jacking systems of a type used\nin garages', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8425.42', '- - Other jacks and hoists, hydraulic :', '', ''], ['7535', '8425.42.10', '- - - Jacks of a kind used in tipping\nmechanisms for lorries', '0%', 'E0'], ['7536', '8425.42.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8425.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7537', '8425.49.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7538', '8425.49.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.26', 'Ships’ derricks; cranes, including cable\ncranes; mobile lifting frames, straddle\ncarriers and works trucks fitted with a\ncrane.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Overhead travelling cranes, transporter\ncranes, gantry cranes, bridge cranes,\nmobile lifting frames and straddle\ncarriers :', '', ''], ['7539', '8426.11.00', '- - Overhead travelling cranes on fixed\nsupport', '0%', 'E0'], ['7540', '8426.12.00', '- - Mobile lifting frames on tyres and\nstraddle carriers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8426.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7541', '8426.19.20', '- - - Bridge cranes', '0%', 'E0'], ['7542', '8426.19.30', '- - - Gantry cranes', '0%', 'E0'], ['7543', '8426.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7544', '8426.20.00', '- Tower cranes', '0%', 'E0'], ['7545', '8426.30.00', '- Portal or pedestal jib cranes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machinery, self-propelled :', '', ''], ['7546', '8426.41.00', '- - On tyres', '0%', 'E0'], ['7547', '8426.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7548', '8426.91.00', '- - Designed for mounting on road\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['7549', '8426.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.27', 'Fork-lift trucks; other works trucks\nfitted with lifting or handling\nequipment.', '', ''], ['7550', '8427.10.00', '- Self-propelled trucks powered by an\nelectric motor', '0%', 'E0'], ['7551', '8427.20.00', '- Other self-propelled trucks', '0%', 'E0'], ['7552', '8427.90.00', '- Other trucks', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.28', 'Other lifting, handling, loading or\nunloading machinery (for example,\nlifts, escalators, conveyors, teleferics).', '', ''], ['', '8428.10', '- Lifts and skip hoists :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Lifts :', '', ''], ['7553', '8428.10.31', '- - - For passengers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7554', '8428.10.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7555', '8428.10.40', '- - Skip hoists', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8428.20', '- Pneumatic elevators and conveyors :', '', ''], ['7556', '8428.20.10', '- - Of a kind used for agriculture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7557', '8428.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other continuous-action elevators and\nconveyors, for goods or materials :', '', ''], ['7558', '8428.31.00', '- - Specially designed for underground\nuse', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8428.32', '- - Other, bucket type :', '', ''], ['7559', '8428.32.10', '- - - Of a kind used for agriculture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7560', '8428.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8428.33', '- - Other, belt type :', '', ''], ['7561', '8428.33.10', '- - - Of a kind used for agriculture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7562', '8428.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8428.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7563', '8428.39.10', '- - - Of a kind used for agriculture', '0%', 'E0'], ['7564', '8428.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7565', '8428.40.00', '- Escalators and moving walkways', '0%', 'E0'], ['7566', '8428.60.00', '- Teleferics, chair-lifts, ski-draglines;\ntraction mechanisms for funiculars', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8428.90', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7567', '8428.90.20', '- - Automated machines for the transport,\nhandling and storage of printed circuit\nboards, printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['7568', '8428.90.30', '- - Mine wagon pushers, locomotive or\nwagon traversers, wagon tippers and\nsimilar railway wagon handling\nequipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['7569', '8428.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.29', 'Self-propelled bulldozers, angledozers,\ngraders, levellers, scrapers, mechanical\nshovels, excavators, shovel loaders,\ntamping machines and road rollers.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Bulldozers and angledozers :', '', ''], ['7570', '8429.11.00', '- - Track laying', '0%', 'E0'], ['7571', '8429.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7572', '8429.20.00', '- Graders and levellers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7573', '8429.30.00', '- Scrapers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8429.40', '- Tamping machines and road rollers :', '', ''], ['7574', '8429.40.30', '- - Tamping machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7575', '8429.40.40', '- - Vibratory smooth drum rollers, with a\ncentrifugal force drum not exceeding 20 t\nby weight', '0%', 'E0'], ['7576', '8429.40.50', '- - Other vibratory road rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7577', '8429.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mechanical shovels, excavators and\nshovel loaders :', '', ''], ['7578', '8429.51.00', '- - Front-end shovel loaders', '0%', 'E0'], ['7579', '8429.52.00', '- - Machinery with a 360° revolving\nsuperstructure', '0%', 'E0'], ['7580', '8429.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.30', 'Other moving, grading, levelling,\nscraping, excavating, tamping,\ncompacting, extracting or boring\nmachinery, for earth, minerals or ores;\npile-drivers and pile-extractors; snow-\nploughs and snow-blowers.', '', ''], ['7581', '8430.10.00', '- Pile-drivers and pile-extractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['7582', '8430.20.00', '- Snow-ploughs and snow-blowers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Coal or rock cutters and tunnelling\nmachinery :', '', ''], ['7583', '8430.31.00', '- - Self-propelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['7584', '8430.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other boring or sinking machinery :', '', ''], ['7585', '8430.41.00', '- - Self-propelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8430.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7586', '8430.49.10', '- - - Wellhead platforms and integrated\nproduction modules suitable for use in\ndrilling operations', '0%', 'E0'], ['7587', '8430.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7588', '8430.50.00', '- Other machinery, self-propelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machinery, not self-propelled :', '', ''], ['7589', '8430.61.00', '- - Tamping or compacting machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7590', '8430.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.31', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the machinery of\nheadings 84.25 to 84.30.', '', ''], ['', '8431.10', '- Of machinery of heading 84.25 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7591', '8431.10.13', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8425.11.00,\n8425.31.00 or 8425.49.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7592', '8431.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7593', '8431.10.22', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8425.19.00,\n8425.39.00, 8425.41.00, 8425.42.10 or\n8425.42.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7594', '8431.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of machinery of heading 84.27 :', '', ''], ['7595', '8431.20.10', '- - Of subheading 8427.10 or 8427.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['7596', '8431.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of machinery of heading 84.28 :', '', ''], ['', '8431.31', '- - Of lifts, skip hoists or escalators :', '', ''], ['7597', '8431.31.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8428.10.39\nor 8428.10.40', '0%', 'E0'], ['7598', '8431.31.20', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8428.10.31\nor 8428.40.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8431.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7599', '8431.39.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8428.20.10,\n8428.32.10, 8428.33.10 or 8428.39.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7600', '8431.39.40', '- - - Of automated machines for the\ntransport, handling and storage of printed\ncircuit boards, printed wiring boards or\nprinted circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['7601', '8431.39.50', '- - - Other, of goods of subheading\n8428.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7602', '8431.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of machinery of heading 84.26, 84.29 or\n84.30 :', '', ''], ['', '8431.41', '- - Buckets, shovels, grabs and grips :', '', ''], ['7603', '8431.41.10', '- - - For machinery of heading 84.26', '0%', 'E0'], ['7604', '8431.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7605', '8431.42.00', '- - Bulldozer or angledozer blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['7606', '8431.43.00', '- - Parts for boring or sinking machinery\nof subheading 8430.41 or 8430.49', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8431.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7607', '8431.49.10', '- - - Parts of machinery of heading 84.26', '0%', 'E0'], ['7608', '8431.49.20', '- - - Cutting edges or end bits of a kind\nused for scrapers, graders or levellers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7609', '8431.49.40', '- - - Cutting edges or end bits of a kind\nused for bulldozer or angledozer blades', '0%', 'E0'], ['7610', '8431.49.50', '- - - Of road rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7611', '8431.49.60', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8430.20.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['7612', '8431.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.32', 'Agricultural, horticultural or forestry\nmachinery for soil preparation or\ncultivation; lawn or sports-ground\nrollers.', '', ''], ['7613', '8432.10.00', '- Ploughs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Harrows, scarifiers, cultivators, weeders\nand hoes :', '', ''], ['7614', '8432.21.00', '- - Disc harrows', '0%', 'E0'], ['7615', '8432.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Seeders, planters and transplanters :', '', ''], ['7616', '8432.31.00', '- - No-till direct seeders, planters and\ntransplanters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7617', '8432.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Manure spreaders and fertiliser\ndistributors :', '', ''], ['7618', '8432.41.00', '- - Manure spreaders', '0%', 'E0'], ['7619', '8432.42.00', '- - Fertiliser distributors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8432.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7620', '8432.80.10', '- - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7621', '8432.80.20', '- - Lawn or sports-ground rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7622', '8432.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8432.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7623', '8432.90.10', '- - Of machinery of subheading\n8432.80.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7624', '8432.90.20', '- - Of lawn or sports-ground rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7625', '8432.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.33', 'Harvesting or threshing machinery,\nincluding straw or fodder balers; grass\nor hay mowers; machines for cleaning,\nsorting or grading eggs, fruit or other\nagricultural produce, other than\nmachinery of heading 84.37.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Mowers for lawns, parks or sports-\ngrounds :', '', ''], ['7626', '8433.11.00', '- - Powered, with the cutting device\nrotating in a horizontal plane', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8433.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7627', '8433.19.10', '- - - Not powered', '0%', 'E0'], ['7628', '8433.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7629', '8433.20.00', '- Other mowers, including cutter bars for\ntractor mounting', '0%', 'E0'], ['7630', '8433.30.00', '- Other haymaking machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7631', '8433.40.00', '- Straw or fodder balers, including pick-\nup balers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other harvesting machinery; threshing\nmachinery :', '', ''], ['7632', '8433.51.00', '- - Combine harvester-threshers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7633', '8433.52.00', '- - Other threshing machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7634', '8433.53.00', '- - Root or tuber harvesting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8433.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7635', '8433.59.20', '- - - Cotton pickers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7636', '8433.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8433.60', '- Machines for cleaning, sorting or\ngrading eggs, fruit or other agricultural\nproduce :', '', ''], ['7637', '8433.60.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7638', '8433.60.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8433.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7639', '8433.90.10', '- - Castors wheels, of a diameter\n(including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but\nnot exceeding 250 mm, provided that the\nwidth of any wheel or tyre fitted thereto\nexceeds 30 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7640', '8433.90.20', '- - Other, of goods of subheading 8433.11\nor 8433.19.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['7641', '8433.90.30', '- - Other, of goods of subheading\n8433.19.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7642', '8433.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.34', 'Milking machines and dairy\nmachinery.', '', ''], ['', '8434.10', '- Milking machines :', '', ''], ['7643', '8434.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7644', '8434.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8434.20', '- Dairy machinery :', '', ''], ['7645', '8434.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7646', '8434.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8434.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7647', '8434.90.10', '- - Suitable for use solely or principally\nwith electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7648', '8434.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.35', 'Presses, crushers and similar\nmachinery used in the manufacture of\nwine, cider, fruit juices or similar\nbeverages.', '', ''], ['', '8435.10', '- Machinery :', '', ''], ['7649', '8435.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7650', '8435.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8435.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7651', '8435.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7652', '8435.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.36', 'Other agricultural, horticultural,\nforestry, poultry-keeping or bee-\nkeeping machinery, including\ngermination plant fitted with\nmechanical or thermal equipment;\npoultry incubators and brooders.', '', ''], ['', '8436.10', '- Machinery for preparing animal feeding\nstuffs :', '', ''], ['7653', '8436.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7654', '8436.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Poultry-keeping machinery; poultry\nincubators and brooders :', '', ''], ['', '8436.21', '- - Poultry incubators and brooders :', '', ''], ['7655', '8436.21.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7656', '8436.21.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8436.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7657', '8436.29.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7658', '8436.29.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8436.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7659', '8436.80.11', '- - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7660', '8436.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7661', '8436.80.21', '- - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7662', '8436.80.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '8436.91', '- - Of poultry-keeping machinery or\npoultry incubators and brooders :', '', ''], ['7663', '8436.91.10', '- - - Of electrically operated machines and\nequipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['7664', '8436.91.20', '- - - Of non-electrically operated\nmachines and equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8436.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of electrically operated machines and\nequipment :', '', ''], ['7665', '8436.99.11', '- - - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7666', '8436.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of non-electrically operated\nmachines and equipment :', '', ''], ['7667', '8436.99.21', '- - - - Agricultural or horticultural', '0%', 'E0'], ['7668', '8436.99.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.37', 'Machines for cleaning, sorting or\ngrading seed, grain or dried\nleguminous vegetables; machinery used\nin the milling industry or for the\nworking of cereals or dried leguminous\nvegetables, other than farm-type\nmachinery.', '', ''], ['', '8437.10', '- Machines for cleaning, sorting or\ngrading seed, grain or dried leguminous\nvegetables :', '', ''], ['7669', '8437.10.10', '- - For grains, electrically operated;\nwinnowing and similar cleaning\nmachines, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7670', '8437.10.20', '- - For grains, not electrically operated;\nwinnowing and similar cleaning\nmachines, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7671', '8437.10.30', '- - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7672', '8437.10.40', '- - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8437.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7673', '8437.80.10', '- - Rice hullers and cone type rice mills,\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7674', '8437.80.20', '- - Rice hullers and cone type rice mills,\nnot electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7675', '8437.80.30', '- - Industrial type coffee and corn mills,\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7676', '8437.80.40', '- - Industrial type coffee and corn mills,\nnot electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7677', '8437.80.51', '- - - Polishing machines for rice, sifting\nand sieving machines, bran cleaning\nmachines and husking machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7678', '8437.80.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7679', '8437.80.61', '- - - Polishing machines for rice, sifting\nand sieving machines, bran cleaning\nmachines and husking machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7680', '8437.80.69', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8437.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7681', '8437.90.11', '- - - Of machines of subheading 8437.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7682', '8437.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7683', '8437.90.21', '- - - Of machines of subheading 8437.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7684', '8437.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.38', 'Machinery, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter, for the\nindustrial preparation or manufacture\nof food or drink, other than machinery\nfor the extraction or preparation of\nanimal or fixed vegetable fats or oils.', '', ''], ['', '8438.10', '- Bakery machinery and machinery for the\nmanufacture of macaroni, spaghetti or\nsimilar products :', '', ''], ['7685', '8438.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7686', '8438.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.20', '- Machinery for the manufacture of\nconfectionery, cocoa or chocolate :', '', ''], ['7687', '8438.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7688', '8438.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.30', '- Machinery for sugar manufacture :', '', ''], ['7689', '8438.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7690', '8438.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7691', '8438.40.00', '- Brewery machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.50', '- Machinery for the preparation of meat or\npoultry :', '', ''], ['7692', '8438.50.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7693', '8438.50.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.60', '- Machinery for the preparation of fruits,\nnuts or vegetables :', '', ''], ['7694', '8438.60.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7695', '8438.60.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Coffee pulpers :', '', ''], ['7696', '8438.80.11', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7697', '8438.80.12', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Machinery for the preparation of fish,\ncrustaceans or molluscs :', '', ''], ['7698', '8438.80.21', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7699', '8438.80.22', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7700', '8438.80.91', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7701', '8438.80.92', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8438.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7702', '8438.90.11', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8438.30.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7703', '8438.90.12', '- - - Of coffee pulpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7704', '8438.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines :', '', ''], ['7705', '8438.90.21', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8438.30.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['7706', '8438.90.22', '- - - Of coffee pulpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7707', '8438.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.39', 'Machinery for making pulp of fibrous\ncellulosic material or for making or\nfinishing paper or paperboard.', '', ''], ['7708', '8439.10.00', '- Machinery for making pulp of fibrous\ncellulosic material', '0%', 'E0'], ['7709', '8439.20.00', '- Machinery for making paper or\npaperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['7710', '8439.30.00', '- Machinery for finishing paper or\npaperboard', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7711', '8439.91.00', '- - Of machinery for making pulp of\nfibrous cellulosic material', '0%', 'E0'], ['7712', '8439.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.40', 'Book-binding machinery, including\nbook-sewing machines.', '', ''], ['', '8440.10', '- Machinery :', '', ''], ['7713', '8440.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7714', '8440.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8440.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7715', '8440.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7716', '8440.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.41', 'Other machinery for making up paper\npulp, paper or paperboard, including\ncutting machines of all kinds.', '', ''], ['', '8441.10', '- Cutting machines :', '', ''], ['7717', '8441.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7718', '8441.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8441.20', '- Machines for making bags, sacks or\nenvelopes :', '', ''], ['7719', '8441.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7720', '8441.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8441.30', '- Machines for making cartons, boxes,\ncases, tubes, drums or similar containers,\nother than by moulding :', '', ''], ['7721', '8441.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7722', '8441.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8441.40', '- Machines for moulding articles in paper\npulp, paper or paperboard :', '', ''], ['7723', '8441.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7724', '8441.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8441.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7725', '8441.80.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7726', '8441.80.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8441.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7727', '8441.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7728', '8441.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.42', 'Machinery, apparatus and equipment\n(other than the machines of headings\n84.56 to 84.65) for preparing or making\nplates, cylinders or other printing\ncomponents; plates, cylinders and other\nprinting components; plates, cylinders\nand lithographic stones, prepared for\nprinting purposes (for example, planed,\ngrained or polished).', '', ''], ['', '8442.30', '- Machinery, apparatus and equipment :', '', ''], ['7729', '8442.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7730', '8442.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8442.40', '- Parts of the foregoing machinery,\napparatus or equipment :', '', ''], ['7731', '8442.40.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines,\napparatus or equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['7732', '8442.40.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines,\napparatus or equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['7733', '8442.50.00', '- Plates, cylinders and other printing\ncomponents; plates, cylinders and\nlithographic stones, prepared for printing\npurposes (for example, planed, grained or\npolished)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.43', 'Printing machinery used for printing\nby means of plates, cylinders and other\nprinting components of heading 84.42;\nother printers, copying machines and\nfacsimile machines, whether or not\ncombined; parts and accessories\nthereof.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Printing machinery used for printing by\nmeans of plates, cylinder and other\nprinting components of heading 84.42 :', '', ''], ['7734', '8443.11.00', '- - Offset printing machinery, reel-fed', '0%', 'E0'], ['7735', '8443.12.00', '- - Offset printing machinery, sheet-fed,\noffice type (using sheets with one side not\nexceeding 22 cm and the other side not\nexceeding 36 cm in the unfolded state)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7736', '8443.13.00', '- - Other offset printing machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7737', '8443.14.00', '- - Letterpress printing machinery, reel-\nfed, excluding flexographic printing', '0%', 'E0'], ['7738', '8443.15.00', '- - Letterpress printing machinery, other\nthan reel-fed, excluding flexographic\nprinting', '0%', 'E0'], ['7739', '8443.16.00', '- - Flexographic printing machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7740', '8443.17.00', '- - Gravure printing machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['7741', '8443.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other printers, copying machines and\nfacsimile machines, whether or not\ncombined :', '', ''], ['', '8443.31', '- - Machines which perform two or more\nof the functions of printing, copying or\nfacsimile transmission, capable of\nconnecting to an automatic data\nprocessing machine or to a network :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Printer-copiers, printing by the ink-jet\nprocess :', '', ''], ['7742', '8443.31.11', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7743', '8443.31.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Printer-copiers, printing by the laser\nprocess :', '', ''], ['7744', '8443.31.21', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7745', '8443.31.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Combination printer-copier-facsimile\nmachines :', '', ''], ['7746', '8443.31.31', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7747', '8443.31.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7748', '8443.31.91', '- - - - Combination printer-copier-scanner-\nfacsimile machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7749', '8443.31.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8443.32', '- - Other, capable of connecting to an\nautomatic data processing machine or to a\nnetwork :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Dot matrix printers :', '', ''], ['7750', '8443.32.11', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7751', '8443.32.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Ink-jet printers :', '', ''], ['7752', '8443.32.21', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7753', '8443.32.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Laser printers :', '', ''], ['7754', '8443.32.31', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7755', '8443.32.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Facsimile machines :', '', ''], ['7756', '8443.32.41', '- - - - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['7757', '8443.32.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7758', '8443.32.50', '- - - Screen printing machinery for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['7759', '8443.32.60', '- - - Plotters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7760', '8443.32.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8443.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7761', '8443.39.10', '- - - Electrostatic photocopying apparatus\noperating by reproducing the original\nimage directly onto the copy (direct\nprocess)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7762', '8443.39.20', '- - - Electrostatic photocopying apparatus,\noperating by reproducing the original\nimage via an intermediate onto the copy\n(indirect process)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7763', '8443.39.30', '- - - Other photocopying apparatus\nincorporating an optical system', '0%', 'E0'], ['7764', '8443.39.40', '- - - Ink-jet printers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7765', '8443.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['7766', '8443.91.00', '- - Parts and accessories of printing\nmachinery used for printing by means of\nplates, cylinders and other printing\ncomponents of heading 84.42', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8443.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7767', '8443.99.10', '- - - Of screen printing machinery for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['7768', '8443.99.20', '- - - Ink-filled printer cartridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['7769', '8443.99.30', '- - - Paper feeders; paper sorters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7770', '8443.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.44', 'Machines for extruding, drawing,\ntexturing or cutting man-made textile\nmaterials.', '', ''], ['7771', '8444.00.10', '- Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7772', '8444.00.20', '- Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.45', 'Machines for preparing textile fibres;\nspinning, doubling or twisting\nmachines and other machinery for\nproducing textile yarns; textile reeling\nor winding (including weft-winding)\nmachines and machines for preparing\ntextile yarns for use on the machines of\nheading 84.46 or 84.47.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Machines for preparing textile fibres :', '', ''], ['', '8445.11', '- - Carding machines :', '', ''], ['7773', '8445.11.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7774', '8445.11.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.12', '- - Combing machines :', '', ''], ['7775', '8445.12.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7776', '8445.12.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.13', '- - Drawing or roving machines :', '', ''], ['7777', '8445.13.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7778', '8445.13.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7779', '8445.19.30', '- - - Cotton gins', '0%', 'E0'], ['7780', '8445.19.40', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7781', '8445.19.50', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.20', '- Textile spinning machines :', '', ''], ['7782', '8445.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7783', '8445.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.30', '- Textile doubling or twisting machines :', '', ''], ['7784', '8445.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7785', '8445.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.40', '- Textile winding (including weft-\nwinding) or reeling machines :', '', ''], ['7786', '8445.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7787', '8445.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8445.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7788', '8445.90.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7789', '8445.90.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.46', 'Weaving machines (looms).', '', ''], ['', '8446.10', '- For weaving fabrics of a width not\nexceeding 30 cm :', '', ''], ['7790', '8446.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7791', '8446.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- For weaving fabrics of a width\nexceeding 30 cm, shuttle type :', '', ''], ['7792', '8446.21.00', '- - Power looms', '0%', 'E0'], ['7793', '8446.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7794', '8446.30.00', '- For weaving fabrics of a width\nexceeding 30 cm, shuttleless type', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.47', 'Knitting machines, stitch-bonding\nmachines and machines for making\ngimped yarn, tulle, lace, embroidery,\ntrimmings, braid or net and machines\nfor tufting.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Circular knitting machines :', '', ''], ['', '8447.11', '- - With cylinder diameter not exceeding\n165 mm :', '', ''], ['7795', '8447.11.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7796', '8447.11.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8447.12', '- - With cylinder diameter exceeding 165\nmm :', '', ''], ['7797', '8447.12.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7798', '8447.12.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8447.20', '- Flat knitting machines; stitch-bonding\nmachines :', '', ''], ['7799', '8447.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7800', '8447.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8447.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7801', '8447.90.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7802', '8447.90.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.48', 'Auxiliary machinery for use with\nmachines of heading 84.44, 84.45, 84.46\nor 84.47 (for example, dobbies,\nJacquards, automatic stop motions,\nshuttle changing mechanisms); parts\nand accessories suitable for use solely\nor principally with the machines of this\nheading or of heading 84.44, 84.45,\n84.46 or 84.47 (for example, spindles\nand spindle flyers, card clothing,\ncombs, extruding nipples, shuttles,\nhealds and heald-frames, hosiery\nneedles).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Auxiliary machinery for machines of\nheading 84.44, 84.45, 84.46 or 84.47 :', '', ''], ['', '8448.11', '- - Dobbies and Jacquards; card reducing,\ncopying, punching or assembling\nmachines for use therewith :', '', ''], ['7803', '8448.11.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7804', '8448.11.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8448.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7805', '8448.19.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7806', '8448.19.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7807', '8448.20.00', '- Parts and accessories of machines of\nheading 84.44 or of their auxiliary\nmachinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories of machines of\nheading 84.45 or of their auxiliary\nmachinery :', '', ''], ['7808', '8448.31.00', '- - Card clothing', '0%', 'E0'], ['7809', '8448.32.00', '- - Of machines for preparing textile\nfibres, other than card clothing', '0%', 'E0'], ['7810', '8448.33.00', '- - Spindles, spindle flyers, spinning rings\nand ring travellers', '0%', 'E0'], ['7811', '8448.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories of weaving\nmachines (looms) or of their auxiliary\nmachinery :', '', ''], ['7812', '8448.42.00', '- - Reeds for looms, healds and heald-\nframes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8448.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Shuttles :', '', ''], ['7813', '8448.49.11', '- - - - For electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7814', '8448.49.12', '- - - - For non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7815', '8448.49.91', '- - - - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7816', '8448.49.92', '- - - - Of non-electrically operated\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories of machines of\nheading 84.47 or of their auxiliary\nmachinery :', '', ''], ['7817', '8448.51.00', '- - Sinkers, needles and other articles used\nin forming stitches', '0%', 'E0'], ['7818', '8448.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.49', 'Machinery for the manufacture or\nfinishing of felt or nonwovens in the\npiece or in shapes, including machinery\nfor making felt hats; blocks for making\nhats.', '', ''], ['7819', '8449.00.10', '- Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7820', '8449.00.20', '- Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.50', 'Household or laundry-type washing\nmachines, including machines which\nboth wash and dry.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Machines, each of a dry linen capacity\nnot exceeding 10 kg :', '', ''], ['', '8450.11', '- - Fully-automatic machines :', '', ''], ['7821', '8450.11.10', '- - - Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 6 kg', '5%', 'EX'], ['7822', '8450.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8450.12', '- - Other machines, with built-in\ncentrifugal drier :', '', ''], ['7823', '8450.12.10', '- - - Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 6 kg', '5%', 'EX'], ['7824', '8450.12.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8450.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7825', '8450.19.11', '- - - - Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 6 kg', '5%', 'EX'], ['7826', '8450.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['7827', '8450.19.91', '- - - - Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 6 kg', '5%', 'E0'], ['7828', '8450.19.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7829', '8450.20.00', '- Machines, each of a dry linen capacity\nexceeding 10 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8450.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7830', '8450.90.10', '- - Of machines of subheading 8450.20.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['7831', '8450.90.20', '- - Of machines of subheading 8450.11,\n8450.12 or 8450.19', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.51', 'Machinery (other than machines of\nheading 84.50) for washing, cleaning,\nwringing, drying, ironing, pressing\n(including fusing presses), bleaching,\ndyeing, dressing, finishing, coating or\nimpregnating textile yarns, fabrics or\nmade up textile articles and machines\nfor applying the paste to the base fabric\nor other support used in the\nmanufacture of floor coverings such as\nlinoleum; machines for reeling,\nunreeling, folding, cutting or pinking\ntextile fabrics.', '', ''], ['7832', '8451.10.00', '- Dry-cleaning machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Drying machines :', '', ''], ['7833', '8451.21.00', '- - Each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 10 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['7834', '8451.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8451.30', '- Ironing machines and presses (including\nfusing presses) :', '', ''], ['7835', '8451.30.10', '- - Single roller type domestic ironing\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7836', '8451.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7837', '8451.40.00', '- Washing, bleaching or dyeing machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7838', '8451.50.00', '- Machines for reeling, unreeling, folding,\ncutting or pinking textile fabrics', '0%', 'E0'], ['7839', '8451.80.00', '- Other machinery', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8451.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['7840', '8451.90.10', '- - Of machines of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 10 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['7841', '8451.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.52', 'Sewing machines, other than book-\nsewing machines of heading 84.40;\nfurniture, bases and covers specially\ndesigned for sewing machines; sewing\nmachine needles.', '', ''], ['7842', '8452.10.00', '- Sewing machines of the household type', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other sewing machines :', '', ''], ['7843', '8452.21.00', '- - Automatic units', '0%', 'E0'], ['7844', '8452.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7845', '8452.30.00', '- Sewing machine needles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8452.90', '- Furniture, bases and covers for sewing\nmachines and parts thereof; other parts of\nsewing machines :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of machinery of subheading\n8452.10.00 :', '', ''], ['7846', '8452.90.11', '- - - Arms and beds; stands with or\nwithout centre frames; flywheels; belt\nguards; treadles or pedals', '0%', 'E0'], ['7847', '8452.90.12', '- - - Furniture, bases and covers and parts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7848', '8452.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7849', '8452.90.91', '- - - Arms and beds; stands with or\nwithout centre frames; flywheels; belt\nguards; treadles or pedals', '0%', 'E0'], ['7850', '8452.90.92', '- - - Furniture, bases and covers and parts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['7851', '8452.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.53', 'Machinery for preparing, tanning or\nworking hides, skins or leather or for\nmaking or repairing footwear or other\narticles of hides, skins or leather, other\nthan sewing machines.', '', ''], ['', '8453.10', '- Machinery for preparing, tanning or\nworking hides, skins or leather :', '', ''], ['7852', '8453.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7853', '8453.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8453.20', '- Machinery for making or repairing\nfootwear :', '', ''], ['7854', '8453.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7855', '8453.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8453.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['7856', '8453.80.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7857', '8453.80.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7858', '8453.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.54', 'Converters, ladles, ingot moulds and\ncasting machines, of a kind used in\nmetallurgy or in metal foundries.', '', ''], ['7859', '8454.10.00', '- Converters', '0%', 'E0'], ['7860', '8454.20.00', '- Ingot moulds and ladles', '0%', 'E0'], ['7861', '8454.30.00', '- Casting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7862', '8454.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.55', 'Metal-rolling mills and rolls therefor.', '', ''], ['7863', '8455.10.00', '- Tube mills', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other rolling mills :', '', ''], ['7864', '8455.21.00', '- - Hot or combination hot and cold', '0%', 'E0'], ['7865', '8455.22.00', '- - Cold', '0%', 'E0'], ['7866', '8455.30.00', '- Rolls for rolling mills', '0%', 'E0'], ['7867', '8455.90.00', '- Other parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.56', 'Machine-tools for working any\nmaterial by removal of material, by\nlaser or other light or photon beam,\nultrasonic, electro-discharge, electro-\nchemical, electron beam, ionic-beam or\nplasma arc processes; water-jet cutting\nmachines.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Operated by laser or other light or\nphoton beam processes :', '', ''], ['7868', '8456.11.00', '- - Operated by laser', '0%', 'E0'], ['7869', '8456.12.00', '- - Operated by other light or photon beam\nprocesses', '0%', 'E0'], ['7870', '8456.20.00', '- Operated by ultrasonic processes', '0%', 'E0'], ['7871', '8456.30.00', '- Operated by electro-discharge processes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8456.40', '- Operated by plasma arc processes :', '', ''], ['7872', '8456.40.10', '- - Machine tools, numerically controlled,\nfor working any material by removal of\nmaterial, by plasma arc processes, for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['7873', '8456.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7874', '8456.50.00', '- Water-jet cutting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8456.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7875', '8456.90.20', '- - Wet processing equipments for the\napplication by immersion of electro-\nchemical solutions, for the purpose of\nremoving material on printed circuit\nboards or printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['7876', '8456.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.57', 'Machining centres, unit construction\nmachines (single station) and multi-\nstation transfer machines, for working\nmetal.', '', ''], ['', '8457.10', '- Machining centres :', '', ''], ['7877', '8457.10.10', '- - Of spindle power not exceeding 4 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7878', '8457.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7879', '8457.20.00', '- Unit construction machines (single\nstation)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7880', '8457.30.00', '- Multi-station transfer machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.58', 'Lathes (including turning centres) for\nremoving metal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Horizontal lathes :', '', ''], ['', '8458.11', '- - Numerically controlled :', '', ''], ['7881', '8458.11.10', '- - - Of spindle power not exceeding 4 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7882', '8458.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8458.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7883', '8458.19.10', '- - - With the distance between the main\nspindle centre and the bed not exceeding\n300 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7884', '8458.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other lathes :', '', ''], ['7885', '8458.91.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8458.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7886', '8458.99.10', '- - - With the distance between the main\nspindle centre and the bed not exceeding\n300 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7887', '8458.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.59', 'Machine-tools (including way-type unit\nhead machines) for drilling, boring,\nmilling, threading or tapping by\nremoving metal, other than lathes\n(including turning centres) of heading\n84.58.', '', ''], ['', '8459.10', '- Way-type unit head machines :', '', ''], ['7888', '8459.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7889', '8459.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other drilling machines :', '', ''], ['7890', '8459.21.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7891', '8459.29.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7892', '8459.29.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other boring-milling machines :', '', ''], ['7893', '8459.31.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7894', '8459.39.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7895', '8459.39.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other boring machines :', '', ''], ['7896', '8459.41.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7897', '8459.49.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7898', '8459.49.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Milling machines, knee-type :', '', ''], ['7899', '8459.51.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7900', '8459.59.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7901', '8459.59.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other milling machines :', '', ''], ['7902', '8459.61.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7903', '8459.69.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7904', '8459.69.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8459.70', '- Other threading or tapping machines :', '', ''], ['7905', '8459.70.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7906', '8459.70.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.60', 'Machine-tools for deburring,\nsharpening, grinding, honing, lapping,\npolishing or otherwise finishing metal\nor cermets by means of grinding stones,\nabrasives or polishing products, other\nthan gear cutting, gear grinding or gear\nfinishing machines of heading 84.61.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Flat-surface grinding machines :', '', ''], ['7907', '8460.12.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['7908', '8460.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other grinding machines :', '', ''], ['7909', '8460.22.00', '- - Centreless grinding machines,\nnumerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['7910', '8460.23.00', '- - Other cylindrical grinding machines,\nnumerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['7911', '8460.24.00', '- - Other, numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8460.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7912', '8460.29.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7913', '8460.29.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Sharpening (tool or cutter grinding)\nmachines :', '', ''], ['', '8460.31', '- - Numerically controlled :', '', ''], ['7914', '8460.31.10', '- - - Machine tools, numerically\ncontrolled, for sharpening carbide drilling\nbits with a shank diameter not exceeding\n3.175 mm, provided with fixed collets and\nhaving a power not exceeding 0.74 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['7915', '8460.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8460.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7916', '8460.39.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7917', '8460.39.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8460.40', '- Honing or lapping machines :', '', ''], ['7918', '8460.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7919', '8460.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8460.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7920', '8460.90.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7921', '8460.90.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.61', 'Machine-tools for planing, shaping,\nslotting, broaching, gear cutting, gear\ngrinding or gear finishing, sawing,\ncutting-off and other machine-tools\nworking by removing metal or cermets,\nnot elsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['', '8461.20', '- Shaping or slotting machines :', '', ''], ['7922', '8461.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7923', '8461.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8461.30', '- Broaching machines :', '', ''], ['7924', '8461.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7925', '8461.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8461.40', '- Gear cutting, gear grinding or gear\nfinishing machines :', '', ''], ['7926', '8461.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7927', '8461.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8461.50', '- Sawing or cutting-off machines :', '', ''], ['7928', '8461.50.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7929', '8461.50.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8461.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7930', '8461.90.11', '- - - Planing machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7931', '8461.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['7932', '8461.90.91', '- - - Planing machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['7933', '8461.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.62', 'Machine-tools (including presses) for\nworking metal by forging, hammering\nor die-stamping; machine-tools\n(including presses) for working metal\nby bending, folding, straightening,\nflattening, shearing, punching or\nnotching; presses for working metal or\nmetal carbides, not specified above.', '', ''], ['', '8462.10', '- Forging or die-stamping machines\n(including presses) and hammers :', '', ''], ['7934', '8462.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7935', '8462.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Bending, folding, straightening or\nflattening machines (including presses) :', '', ''], ['7936', '8462.21.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8462.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7937', '8462.29.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7938', '8462.29.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Shearing machines (including presses),\nother than combined punching and\nshearing machines :', '', ''], ['7939', '8462.31.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8462.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7940', '8462.39.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7941', '8462.39.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Punching or notching machines\n(including presses), including combined\npunching and shearing machines :', '', ''], ['7942', '8462.41.00', '- - Numerically controlled', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8462.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7943', '8462.49.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7944', '8462.49.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7945', '8462.91.00', '- - Hydraulic presses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8462.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7946', '8462.99.10', '- - - Machines for the manufacture of\nboxes, cans and similar containers of tin\nplate, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7947', '8462.99.20', '- - - Machines for the manufacture of\nboxes, cans and similar containers of tin\nplate, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7948', '8462.99.50', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7949', '8462.99.60', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.63', 'Other machine-tools for working metal\nor cermets, without removing material.', '', ''], ['', '8463.10', '- Draw-benches for bars, tubes, profiles,\nwire or the like :', '', ''], ['7950', '8463.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7951', '8463.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8463.20', '- Thread rolling machines :', '', ''], ['7952', '8463.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7953', '8463.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8463.30', '- Machines for working wire :', '', ''], ['7954', '8463.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7955', '8463.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8463.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7956', '8463.90.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7957', '8463.90.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.64', 'Machine-tools for working stone,\nceramics, concrete, asbestos-cement or\nlike mineral materials or for cold-\nworking glass.', '', ''], ['', '8464.10', '- Sawing machines :', '', ''], ['7958', '8464.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7959', '8464.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8464.20', '- Grinding or polishing machines :', '', ''], ['7960', '8464.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7961', '8464.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8464.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7962', '8464.90.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7963', '8464.90.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.65', 'Machine-tools (including machines for\nnailing, stapling, glueing or otherwise\nassembling) for working wood, cork,\nbone, hard rubber, hard plastics or\nsimilar hard materials.', '', ''], ['7964', '8465.10.00', '- Machines which can carry out different\ntypes of machining operations without\ntool change between such operations', '0%', 'E0'], ['7965', '8465.20.00', '- Machining centres', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8465.91', '- - Sawing machines :', '', ''], ['7966', '8465.91.10', '- - - Of a kind used for scoring printed\ncircuit boards or printed wiring boards or\nprinted circuit board or printed wiring\nboard substrates, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7967', '8465.91.20', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7968', '8465.91.30', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.92', '- - Planing, milling or moulding (by\ncutting) machines :', '', ''], ['7969', '8465.92.10', '- - - For routing printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards or printed circuit\nboard or printed wiring board substrates,\naccepting router bits with a shank\ndiameter not exceeding 3.175 mm, for\nscoring printed circuit boards or printed\nwiring boards or printed circuit board or\nprinted wiring board substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['7970', '8465.92.20', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7971', '8465.92.30', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.93', '- - Grinding, sanding or polishing\nmachines :', '', ''], ['7972', '8465.93.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7973', '8465.93.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.94', '- - Bending or assembling machines :', '', ''], ['7974', '8465.94.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7975', '8465.94.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.95', '- - Drilling or morticing machines :', '', ''], ['7976', '8465.95.10', '- - - Drilling machines for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards, with a spindle\nspeed exceeding 50,000 rpm and\naccepting drill bits of a shank diameter\nnot exceeding 3.175 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['7977', '8465.95.30', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7978', '8465.95.40', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.96', '- - Splitting, slicing or paring machines :', '', ''], ['7979', '8465.96.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7980', '8465.96.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8465.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['7981', '8465.99.30', '- - - Lathes, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7982', '8465.99.40', '- - - Lathes, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7983', '8465.99.50', '- - - Machines for deburring the surfaces\nof printed circuit boards or printed wiring\nboards during manufacturing; machines\nfor scoring printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards or printed circuit\nboard or printed wiring board substrates;', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'laminating presses for the manufacture of\nprinted circuit boards or printed wiring\nboards', '', ''], ['7984', '8465.99.60', '- - - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['7985', '8465.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.66', 'Parts and accessories suitable for use\nsolely or principally with the machines\nof headings 84.56 to 84.65, including\nwork or tool holders, self-opening\ndieheads, dividing heads and other\nspecial attachments for the machines;\ntool holders for any type of tool for\nworking in the hand.', '', ''], ['', '8466.10', '- Tool holders and self-opening dieheads :', '', ''], ['7986', '8466.10.10', '- - For the machines of subheading\n8456.40.10, 8456.90.20, 8460.31.10,\n8465.91.10, 8465.92.10, 8465.95.10 or\n8465.99.50', '0%', 'E0'], ['7987', '8466.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8466.20', '- Work holders :', '', ''], ['7988', '8466.20.10', '- - For the machines of subheading\n8456.40.10, 8456.90.20, 8460.31.10,\n8465.91.10, 8465.92.10, 8465.95.10 or\n8465.99.50', '0%', 'E0'], ['7989', '8466.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8466.30', '- Dividing heads and other special\nattachments for machines :', '', ''], ['7990', '8466.30.10', '- - For the machines of subheading\n8456.40.10, 8456.90.20, 8460.31.10,\n8465.91.10, 8465.92.10, 8465.95.10 or\n8465.99.50', '0%', 'E0'], ['7991', '8466.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['7992', '8466.91.00', '- - For machines of heading 84.64', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8466.92', '- - For machines of heading 84.65 :', '', ''], ['7993', '8466.92.10', '- - - For the machines of subheading\n8465.91.10, 8465.92.10, 8465.95.10 or\n8465.99.50', '0%', 'E0'], ['7994', '8466.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8466.93', '- - For machines of headings 84.56 to\n84.61 :', '', ''], ['7995', '8466.93.20', '- - - For machines of subheading\n8456.40.10, 8456.90.20 or 8460.31.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['7996', '8466.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['7997', '8466.94.00', '- - For machines of heading 84.62 or\n84.63', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.67', 'Tools for working in the hand,\npneumatic, hydraulic or with\nself-contained electric or non-electric\nmotor.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Pneumatic :', '', ''], ['7998', '8467.11.00', '- - Rotary type (including combined\nrotary-percussion)', '0%', 'E0'], ['7999', '8467.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- With self-contained electric motor :', '', ''], ['8000', '8467.21.00', '- - Drills of all kinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['8001', '8467.22.00', '- - Saws', '0%', 'E0'], ['8002', '8467.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other tools :', '', ''], ['8003', '8467.81.00', '- - Chain saws', '0%', 'E0'], ['8004', '8467.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '8467.91', '- - Of chain saws :', '', ''], ['8005', '8467.91.10', '- - - Of electro-mechanical type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8006', '8467.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8007', '8467.92.00', '- - Of pneumatic tools', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8467.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8008', '8467.99.10', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8467.21.00,\n8467.22.00 or 8467.29.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['8009', '8467.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.68', 'Machinery and apparatus for\nsoldering, brazing or welding, whether\nor not capable of cutting, other than\nthose of heading 85.15; gas-operated\nsurface tempering machines and\nappliances.', '', ''], ['8010', '8468.10.00', '- Hand-held blow pipes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8468.20', '- Other gas-operated machinery and\napparatus :', '', ''], ['8011', '8468.20.10', '- - Hand-operated (not hand-held) gas\nwelding or brazing appliances for metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['8012', '8468.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8013', '8468.80.00', '- Other machinery and apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8468.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8014', '8468.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 8468.20.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8015', '8468.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.70', 'Calculating machines and pocket-size\ndata recording, reproducing and\ndisplaying machines with calculating\nfunctions; accounting machines,\npostage-franking machines, ticket-\nissuing machines and similar machines,\nincorporating a calculating device; cash\nregisters.', '', ''], ['8016', '8470.10.00', '- Electronic calculators capable of\noperation without an external source of\nelectric power and pocket-size data\nrecording, reproducing and displaying\nmachines with calculating functions', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other electronic calculating machines :', '', ''], ['8017', '8470.21.00', '- - Incorporating a printing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['8018', '8470.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8019', '8470.30.00', '- Other calculating machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8020', '8470.50.00', '- Cash registers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8470.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8021', '8470.90.10', '- - Postage-franking machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8022', '8470.90.20', '- - Accounting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8023', '8470.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.71', 'Automatic data processing machines\nand units thereof; magnetic or optical\nreaders, machines for transcribing data\nonto data media in coded form and\nmachines for processing such data, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', ''], ['', '8471.30', '- Portable automatic data processing\nmachines, weighing not more than 10 kg,\nconsisting of at least a central processing\nunit, a keyboard and a display :', '', ''], ['8024', '8471.30.20', '- - Laptops including notebooks and\nsubnotebooks', '0%', 'E0'], ['8025', '8471.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other automatic data processing\nmachines :', '', ''], ['', '8471.41', '- - Comprising in the same housing at\nleast a central processing unit and an\ninput and output unit, whether or not\ncombined :', '', ''], ['8026', '8471.41.10', '- - - Personal computers excluding\nportable computers of subheading\n8471.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['8027', '8471.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.49', '- - Other, presented in the form of\nsystems :', '', ''], ['8028', '8471.49.10', '- - - Personal computers excluding\nportable computers of subheading\n8471.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['8029', '8471.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.50', '- Processing units other than those of\nsubheading 8471.41 or 8471.49, whether\nor not containing in the same housing one\nor two of the following types of units :\nstorage units, input units, output units :', '', ''], ['8030', '8471.50.10', '- - Processing units for personal\n(including portable) computers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8031', '8471.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.60', '- Input or output units, whether or not\ncontaining storage units in the same\nhousing :', '', ''], ['8032', '8471.60.30', '- - Computer keyboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8033', '8471.60.40', '- - X-Y coordinate input devices,\nincluding mouses, light pens, joysticks,\ntrack balls, and touch sensitive screens', '0%', 'E0'], ['8034', '8471.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.70', '- Storage units :', '', ''], ['8035', '8471.70.10', '- - Floppy disk drives', '0%', 'E0'], ['8036', '8471.70.20', '- - Hard disk drives', '0%', 'E0'], ['8037', '8471.70.30', '- - Tape drives', '0%', 'E0'], ['8038', '8471.70.40', '- - Optical disk drives, including CD-\nROM drives, DVD drives and CD-R\ndrives', '0%', 'E0'], ['8039', '8471.70.50', '- - Proprietary format storage devices\nincluding media therefor for automatic\ndata processing machines, with or without\nremovable media and whether magnetic,\noptical or other technology', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8040', '8471.70.91', '- - - Automated backup systems', '0%', 'E0'], ['8041', '8471.70.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.80', '- Other units of automatic data processing\nmachines :', '', ''], ['8042', '8471.80.10', '- - Control and adaptor units', '0%', 'E0'], ['8043', '8471.80.70', '- - Sound cards or video cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8044', '8471.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8471.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8045', '8471.90.10', '- - Bar code readers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8046', '8471.90.30', '- - Electronic fingerprint identification\nsystems', '0%', 'E0'], ['8047', '8471.90.40', '- - Other optical character readers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8048', '8471.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.72', 'Other office machines (for example,\nhectograph or stencil duplicating\nmachines, addressing machines,\nautomatic banknote dispensers, coin-\nsorting machines, coin-counting or\nwrapping machines, pencil-sharpening\nmachines, perforating or stapling\nmachines).', '', ''], ['', '8472.10', '- Duplicating machines :', '', ''], ['8049', '8472.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8050', '8472.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8472.30', '- Machines for sorting or folding mail or\nfor inserting mail in envelopes or bands,\nmachines for opening, closing or sealing\nmail and machines for affixing or\ncancelling postage stamps :', '', ''], ['8051', '8472.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8052', '8472.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8472.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8053', '8472.90.10', '- - Automatic teller machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Typewriters other than printers of\nheading 84.43 :', '', ''], ['8054', '8472.90.41', '- - - Automatic', '0%', 'E0'], ['8055', '8472.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8056', '8472.90.50', '- - Word-processing machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8057', '8472.90.60', '- - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8058', '8472.90.90', '- - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.73', 'Parts and accessories (other than\ncovers, carrying cases and the like)\nsuitable for use solely or principally\nwith machines of headings 84.70 to\n84.72.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories of the machines of\nheading 84.70 :', '', ''], ['8059', '8473.21.00', '- - Of the electronic calculating machines\nof subheading 8470.10.00, 8470.21.00 or\n8470.29.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['8060', '8473.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8473.30', '- Parts and accessories of the machines of\nheading 84.71 :', '', ''], ['8061', '8473.30.10', '- - Assembled printed circuit boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8062', '8473.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8473.40', '- Parts and accessories of the machines of\nheading 84.72 :', '', ''], ['8063', '8473.40.10', '- - For electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8064', '8473.40.20', '- - For non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8473.50', '- Parts and accessories equally suitable for\nuse with the machines of two or more of\nthe headings 84.70 to 84.72 :', '', ''], ['8065', '8473.50.10', '- - Suitable for use with the machines of\nheading 84.71', '0%', 'E0'], ['8066', '8473.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.74', 'Machinery for sorting, screening,\nseparating, washing, crushing,\ngrinding, mixing or kneading earth,\nstone, ores or other mineral substances,\nin solid (including powder or paste)\nform; machinery for agglomerating,\nshaping or moulding solid mineral\nfuels, ceramic paste, unhardened\ncements, plastering materials or other\nmineral products in powder or paste\nform; machines for forming foundry\nmoulds of sand.', '', ''], ['', '8474.10', '- Sorting, screening, separating or\nwashing machines :', '', ''], ['8067', '8474.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8068', '8474.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8474.20', '- Crushing or grinding machines :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['8069', '8474.20.11', '- - - For stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['8070', '8474.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['8071', '8474.20.21', '- - - For stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['8072', '8474.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mixing or kneading machines :', '', ''], ['', '8474.31', '- - Concrete or mortar mixers :', '', ''], ['8073', '8474.31.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8074', '8474.31.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8474.32', '- - Machines for mixing mineral', '', ''], ['', '', 'substances with bitumen :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['8075', '8474.32.11', '- - - - Of an output capacity not exceeding\n80 t/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['8076', '8474.32.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['8077', '8474.32.21', '- - - - Of an output capacity not exceeding\n80 t/h', '0%', 'E0'], ['8078', '8474.32.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8474.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8079', '8474.39.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8080', '8474.39.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8474.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['8081', '8474.80.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8082', '8474.80.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8474.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8083', '8474.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8084', '8474.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.75', 'Machines for assembling electric or\nelectronic lamps, tubes or valves or\nflashbulbs, in glass envelopes; machines\nfor manufacturing or hot working glass\nor glassware.', '', ''], ['', '8475.10', '- Machines for assembling electric or\nelectronic lamps, tubes or valves or\nflashbulbs, in glass envelopes :', '', ''], ['8085', '8475.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8086', '8475.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Machines for manufacturing or hot\nworking glass or glassware :', '', ''], ['8087', '8475.21.00', '- - Machines for making optical fibres and\npreforms thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['8088', '8475.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8475.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8089', '8475.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8090', '8475.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.76', 'Automatic goods-vending machines\n(for example, postage stamp, cigarette,\nfood or beverage machines), including\nmoney-changing machines.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Automatic beverage-vending machines :', '', ''], ['8091', '8476.21.00', '- - Incorporating heating or refrigerating\ndevices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8092', '8476.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machines :', '', ''], ['8093', '8476.81.00', '- - Incorporating heating or refrigerating\ndevices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8094', '8476.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8095', '8476.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.77', 'Machinery for working rubber or\nplastics or for the manufacture of\nproducts from these materials, not', '', ''], ['', '', 'specified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '8477.10', '- Injection-moulding machines :', '', ''], ['8096', '8477.10.10', '- - For moulding rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For moulding plastics :', '', ''], ['8097', '8477.10.31', '- - - Poly (vinyl chloride) injection\nmoulding machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8098', '8477.10.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8477.20', '- Extruders :', '', ''], ['8099', '8477.20.10', '- - For extruding rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['8100', '8477.20.20', '- - For extruding plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['8101', '8477.30.00', '- Blow moulding machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8477.40', '- Vacuum moulding machines and other\nthermoforming machines :', '', ''], ['8102', '8477.40.10', '- - For moulding or forming rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['8103', '8477.40.20', '- - For moulding or forming plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machinery for moulding or\notherwise forming :', '', ''], ['8104', '8477.51.00', '- - For moulding or retreading pneumatic\ntyres or for moulding or otherwise\nforming inner tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8477.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8105', '8477.59.10', '- - - For rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['8106', '8477.59.20', '- - - For plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8477.80', '- Other machinery :', '', ''], ['8107', '8477.80.10', '- - For working rubber or for the\nmanufacture of products from rubber,\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8108', '8477.80.20', '- - For working rubber or for the\nmanufacture of products from rubber, not\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For working plastics or for the\nmanufacture of products from plastics,\nelectrically operated :', '', ''], ['8109', '8477.80.31', '- - - Lamination presses for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8110', '8477.80.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8111', '8477.80.40', '- - For working plastics or for the\nmanufacture of products from plastics, not\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8477.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8112', '8477.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines for\nworking rubber or for the manufacture of\nproducts from rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['8113', '8477.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines\nfor working rubber or for the manufacture\nof products from rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of electrically operated machines for\nworking plastics or for the manufacture of\nproducts from plastic materials :', '', ''], ['8114', '8477.90.32', '- - - Parts of lamination presses for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8115', '8477.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8116', '8477.90.40', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines\nfor working plastics or for the\nmanufacture of products from plastic\nmaterials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.78', 'Machinery for preparing or making up\ntobacco, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter.', '', ''], ['', '8478.10', '- Machinery :', '', ''], ['8117', '8478.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8118', '8478.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8478.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8119', '8478.90.10', '- - Of electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8120', '8478.90.20', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.79', 'Machines and mechanical appliances\nhaving individual functions, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '8479.10', '- Machinery for public works, building or\nthe like :', '', ''], ['8121', '8479.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8122', '8479.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.20', '- Machinery for the extraction or\npreparation of animal or fixed vegetable\nfats or oils :', '', ''], ['8123', '8479.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8124', '8479.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.30', '- Presses for the manufacture of particle\nboard or fibre building board of wood or\nother ligneous materials and other\nmachinery for treating wood or cork :', '', ''], ['8125', '8479.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8126', '8479.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.40', '- Rope or cable-making machines :', '', ''], ['8127', '8479.40.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8128', '8479.40.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8129', '8479.50.00', '- Industrial robots, not elsewhere\nspecified or included', '0%', 'E0'], ['8130', '8479.60.00', '- Evaporative air coolers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Passenger boarding bridges :', '', ''], ['8131', '8479.71.00', '- - Of a kind used in airports', '0%', 'E0'], ['8132', '8479.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other machines and mechanical\nappliances :', '', ''], ['', '8479.81', '- - For treating metal, including electric\nwire coil-winders :', '', ''], ['8133', '8479.81.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8134', '8479.81.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.82', '- - Mixing, kneading, crushing, grinding,\nscreening, sifting, homogenising,\nemulsifying or stirring machines :', '', ''], ['8135', '8479.82.10', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8136', '8479.82.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8137', '8479.89.20', '- - - Machinery for assembling central\nprocessing unit (CPU) daughter boards in\nplastic cases or housings; apparatus for\nthe regeneration of chemical solutions\nused in the manufacture of printed circuit\nboards or printed wiring boards;\nequipment for mechanically cleaning the\nsurfaces of printed circuit boards or\nprinted wiring boards during\nmanufacturing; automated machines for\nthe placement or the removal of\ncomponents or contact elements on\nprinted circuit boards or printed wiring\nboards or other substrates; registration\nequipment for the alignment of printed\ncircuit boards or printed wiring boards or\nprinted circuit assemblies in the\nmanufacturing process', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, electrically operated :', '', ''], ['8138', '8479.89.31', '- - - - Automatic service-vending\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8139', '8479.89.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8140', '8479.89.40', '- - - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8479.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8141', '8479.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 8479.89.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['8142', '8479.90.30', '- - Of other electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8143', '8479.90.40', '- - Of non-electrically operated machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.80', 'Moulding boxes for metal foundry;\nmould bases; moulding patterns;\nmoulds for metal (other than ingot\nmoulds), metal carbides, glass, mineral\nmaterials, rubber or plastics.', '', ''], ['8144', '8480.10.00', '- Moulding boxes for metal foundry', '0%', 'E0'], ['8145', '8480.20.00', '- Mould bases', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8480.30', '- Moulding patterns :', '', ''], ['8146', '8480.30.10', '- - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['8147', '8480.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Moulds for metal or metal carbides :', '', ''], ['8148', '8480.41.00', '- - Injection or compression types', '0%', 'E0'], ['8149', '8480.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8150', '8480.50.00', '- Moulds for glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['8151', '8480.60.00', '- Moulds for mineral materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Moulds for rubber or plastics :', '', ''], ['', '8480.71', '- - Injection or compression types :', '', ''], ['8152', '8480.71.10', '- - - Moulds for footwear soles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8153', '8480.71.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8480.79', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8154', '8480.79.10', '- - - Moulds for footwear soles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8155', '8480.79.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.81', 'Taps, cocks, valves and similar\nappliances for pipes, boiler shells,\ntanks, vats or the like, including\npressure-reducing valves and\nthermostatically controlled valves.', '', ''], ['', '8481.10', '- Pressure-reducing valves :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of iron or steel :', '', ''], ['8156', '8481.10.11', '- - - Manually operated sluice or gate\nvalves with inlets or outlets of an internal\ndiameter exceeding 5 cm but not\nexceeding 40 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8157', '8481.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of copper or copper alloys :', '', ''], ['8158', '8481.10.21', '- - - With an internal diameter of 2.5 cm\nor less', '0%', 'E0'], ['8159', '8481.10.22', '- - - With an internal diameter of over 2.5\ncm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8160', '8481.10.91', '- - - Of plastics, with an internal diameter\nof not less than 1 cm and not more than\n2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8161', '8481.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8481.20', '- Valves for oleohydraulic or pneumatic\ntransmissions :', '', ''], ['8162', '8481.20.10', '- - Manually operated sluice or gate\nvalves with inlets or outlets of an internal\ndiameter exceeding 5 cm but not\nexceeding 40 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8163', '8481.20.20', '- - Of copper or copper alloys, with an\ninternal diameter of 2.5 cm or less, or of\nplastics, with an internal diameter of not\nless than 1 cm and not more than 2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8164', '8481.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8481.30', '- Check (nonreturn) valves :', '', ''], ['8165', '8481.30.10', '- - Swing check-valves, of cast iron, with\nan inlet of internal diameter of 4 cm or\nmore but not exceeding 60 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8166', '8481.30.20', '- - Of copper or copper alloys, with an\ninternal diameter of 2.5 cm or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['8167', '8481.30.40', '- - Of plastics, with an internal diameter\nof not less than 1 cm and not more than\n2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8168', '8481.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8481.40', '- Safety or relief valves :', '', ''], ['8169', '8481.40.10', '- - Of copper or copper alloys, with an\ninternal diameter of 2.5 cm or less', '0%', 'E0'], ['8170', '8481.40.30', '- - Of plastics, with an internal diameter\nof not less than 1 cm and not more than\n2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8171', '8481.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8481.80', '- Other appliances :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Valves for inner tubes :', '', ''], ['8172', '8481.80.11', '- - - Of copper or copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['8173', '8481.80.12', '- - - Of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Valves for tubeless tyres :', '', ''], ['8174', '8481.80.13', '- - - Of copper or copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['8175', '8481.80.14', '- - - Of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)\ncylinder valves of copper or copper\nalloys :', '', ''], ['8176', '8481.80.21', '- - - Having inlet or outlet internal\ndiameters not exceeding 2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8177', '8481.80.22', '- - - Having inlet or outlet internal\ndiameters exceeding 2.5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8178', '8481.80.30', '- - Cocks and valves, whether or not fitted\nwith piezo-electric igniters, for gas stoves\nor ranges', '0%', 'E0'], ['8179', '8481.80.40', '- - Aerated or carbonated liquid bottle\nvalves; valves for gas operated beer\ndispensing units', '0%', 'E0'], ['8180', '8481.80.50', '- - Mixing taps and valves', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Water pipeline valves :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Gate valves, of cast iron, with an\ninternal diameter of 4 cm or more;\nbutterfly valves, of cast iron, with an\ninternal diameter of 8 cm or more :', '', ''], ['8181', '8481.80.61', '- - - - Manually operated gate valves with\nan internal diameter exceeding 5 cm but\nnot exceeding 40 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8182', '8481.80.62', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8183', '8481.80.63', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Hog nipple waterers :', '', ''], ['8184', '8481.80.64', '- - - Of plastics and of not less than 1 cm\nand not more than 2.5 cm in internal\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['8185', '8481.80.65', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Nipple joint valves :', '', ''], ['8186', '8481.80.66', '- - - Of plastics and of not less than 1 cm\nand not more than 2.5 cm in internal\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['8187', '8481.80.67', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Ball valves :', '', ''], ['8188', '8481.80.71', '- - - - Of plastics and of not less than 1 cm\nand not more than 2.5 cm in internal\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['8189', '8481.80.72', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Gate valves, manually operated, of\niron or steel :', '', ''], ['8190', '8481.80.73', '- - - - Having inlet and outlet internal\ndiameters of more than 5 cm but not more\nthan 40 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8191', '8481.80.74', '- - - - Having inlet and outlet internal\ndiameters of more than 40 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8192', '8481.80.77', '- - - - Having inlet and outlet internal\ndiameters of not more than 5 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Manifold valves :', '', ''], ['8193', '8481.80.78', '- - - - Of plastics and of not less than 1 cm\nand not more than 2.5 cm in internal\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['8194', '8481.80.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Pneumatically controlled valves :', '', ''], ['8195', '8481.80.81', '- - - - Of plastics and of not less than 1 cm\nand not more than 2.5 cm in internal\ndiameter', '0%', 'E0'], ['8196', '8481.80.82', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other valves of plastics :', '', ''], ['8197', '8481.80.85', '- - - - Having an inlet internal diameter of\nnot less than 1 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8198', '8481.80.87', '- - - - - Fuel cut-off valves for vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['8199', '8481.80.88', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8200', '8481.80.89', '- - - Other, manually operated, weighing\nless than 3 kg, surface treated or made of\nstainless steel or nickel', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8201', '8481.80.91', '- - - - Water taps of copper or copper\nalloy, with an internal diameter of 2.5 cm\nor less', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8202', '8481.80.92', '- - - - - Fuel cut-off valves for vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['8203', '8481.80.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8481.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8204', '8481.90.10', '- - Housings for sluice or gate valves with\ninlet or outlet of an internal diameter\nexceeding 50 mm but not exceeding 400\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For taps, cocks, valves (excluding\ninner tube valves and valves for tubeless\ntyres) and similar appliances of 25 mm or\nless in internal diameter :', '', ''], ['8205', '8481.90.21', '- - - Bodies, for water taps', '0%', 'E0'], ['8206', '8481.90.22', '- - - Bodies, for liquefied petroleum gas\n(LPG) cylinder valves', '0%', 'E0'], ['8207', '8481.90.23', '- - - Bodies, other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8208', '8481.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Valve bodies or stems of inner tube or\ntubeless tyre valves :', '', ''], ['8209', '8481.90.31', '- - - Of copper or copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['8210', '8481.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Valve cores of inner tube or tubeless\ntyre valves :', '', ''], ['8211', '8481.90.41', '- - - Of copper or copper alloys', '0%', 'E0'], ['8212', '8481.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8213', '8481.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.82', 'Ball or roller bearings.', '', ''], ['8214', '8482.10.00', '- Ball bearings', '5%', 'E0'], ['8215', '8482.20.00', '- Tapered roller bearings, including cone\nand tapered roller assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8216', '8482.30.00', '- Spherical roller bearings', '0%', 'E0'], ['8217', '8482.40.00', '- Needle roller bearings', '0%', 'E0'], ['8218', '8482.50.00', '- Other cylindrical roller bearings', '0%', 'E0'], ['8219', '8482.80.00', '- Other, including combined ball/roller\nbearings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8220', '8482.91.00', '- - Balls, needles and rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8221', '8482.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.83', 'Transmission shafts (including cam\nshafts and crank shafts) and cranks;\nbearing housings and plain shaft\nbearings; gears and gearing; ball or\nroller screws; gear boxes and other\nspeed changers, including torque\nconverters; flywheels and pulleys,\nincluding pulley blocks; clutches and\nshaft couplings (including universal\njoints).', '', ''], ['', '8483.10', '- Transmission shafts (including cam\nshafts and crank shafts) and cranks :', '', ''], ['8222', '8483.10.10', '- - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Cam shafts and crank shafts for\nengines of vehicles of Chapter 87 :', '', ''], ['8223', '8483.10.24', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8224', '8483.10.25', '- - - - For vehicles of a cylinder capacity\nnot exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['8225', '8483.10.26', '- - - - For vehicles of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 2,000 cc but not exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['8226', '8483.10.27', '- - - - For vehicles of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For marine propulsion engines :', '', ''], ['8227', '8483.10.31', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 22.38 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['8228', '8483.10.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8229', '8483.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8483.20', '- Bearing housings, incorporating ball or\nroller bearings :', '', ''], ['8230', '8483.20.20', '- - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['8231', '8483.20.30', '- - For engines of vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8232', '8483.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8483.30', '- Bearing housings, not incorporating ball\nor roller bearings; plain shaft bearings :', '', ''], ['8233', '8483.30.30', '- - For engines of vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8234', '8483.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8483.40', '- Gears and gearing, other than toothed\nwheels, chain sprockets and other\ntransmission elements presented\nseparately; ball or roller screws; gear\nboxes and other speed changers, including\ntorque converters :', '', ''], ['8235', '8483.40.20', '- - For marine vessels', '0%', 'E0'], ['8236', '8483.40.30', '- - For machinery of heading 84.29 or\n84.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['8237', '8483.40.40', '- - For vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8238', '8483.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8239', '8483.50.00', '- Flywheels and pulleys, including pulley\nblocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['8240', '8483.60.00', '- Clutches and shaft couplings (including\nuniversal joints)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8483.90', '- Toothed wheels, chain sprockets and\nother transmission elements presented\nseparately; parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Parts of goods of subheading 8483.10 :', '', ''], ['8241', '8483.90.11', '- - - For tractors of subheading 8701.10 or\n8701.91 to 8701.95', '0%', 'E0'], ['8242', '8483.90.13', '- - - For other tractors of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['8243', '8483.90.14', '- - - For goods of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['8244', '8483.90.15', '- - - For other goods of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8245', '8483.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8246', '8483.90.91', '- - - For goods of subheading 8701.10 or\n8701.91 to 8701.95', '0%', 'E0'], ['8247', '8483.90.93', '- - - For other tractors of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['8248', '8483.90.94', '- - - For goods of heading 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['8249', '8483.90.95', '- - - For other goods of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8250', '8483.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.84', 'Gaskets and similar joints of metal\nsheeting combined with other material\nor of two or more layers of metal; sets\nor assortments of gaskets and similar\njoints, dissimilar in composition, put up\nin pouches, envelopes or similar\npackings; mechanical seals.', '', ''], ['8251', '8484.10.00', '- Gaskets and similar joints of metal\nsheeting combined with other material or\nof two or more layers of metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['8252', '8484.20.00', '- Mechanical seals', '0%', 'E0'], ['8253', '8484.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.86', 'Machines and apparatus of a kind used\nsolely or principally for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor boules\nor wafers, semiconductor devices,\nelectronic integrated circuits or flat\npanel displays; machines and\napparatus specified in Note 9 (C) to this', '', ''], ['', '', 'Chapter; parts and accessories.', '', ''], ['', '8486.10', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers :', '', ''], ['8254', '8486.10.10', '- - Apparatus for rapid heating of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8255', '8486.10.20', '- - Spin dryers for semiconductor wafer\nprocessing', '0%', 'E0'], ['8256', '8486.10.30', '- - Machines for working any material by\nremoval of material, by laser or other light\nor photon beam in the production of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8257', '8486.10.40', '- - Machines and apparatus for sawing\nmonocrystal semiconductor boules into\nslices, or wafers into chips', '0%', 'E0'], ['8258', '8486.10.50', '- - Grinding, polishing and lapping\nmachines for processing of semiconductor\nwafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8259', '8486.10.60', '- - Apparatus for growing or pulling\nmonocrystal semiconductor boules', '0%', 'E0'], ['8260', '8486.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8486.20', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor devices or\nof electronic integrated circuits :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Film formation equipment :', '', ''], ['8261', '8486.20.11', '- - - Chemical vapour deposition\napparatus for semiconductor production', '0%', 'E0'], ['8262', '8486.20.12', '- - - Epitaxial deposition machines for\nsemiconductor wafers; spinners for\ncoating photographic emulsions on\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8263', '8486.20.13', '- - - Apparatus for physical deposition by\nsputtering on semiconductor wafers;\nphysical deposition apparatus for\nsemiconductor production', '0%', 'E0'], ['8264', '8486.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Doping equipment :', '', ''], ['8265', '8486.20.21', '- - - Ion implanters for doping\nsemiconductor materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['8266', '8486.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Etching and stripping equipment :', '', ''], ['8267', '8486.20.31', '- - - Deflash machines for cleaning and\nremoving contaminants from the metal\nleads of semiconductor packages prior to\nthe electroplating process; spraying\nappliances for etching, stripping or\ncleaning semiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8268', '8486.20.32', '- - - Equipment for dry-etching patterns\non semiconductor materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['8269', '8486.20.33', '- - - Apparatus for wet etching,\ndeveloping, stripping or cleaning\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8270', '8486.20.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Lithography equipment :', '', ''], ['8271', '8486.20.41', '- - - Direct write-on-wafer apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8272', '8486.20.42', '- - - Step and repeat aligners', '0%', 'E0'], ['8273', '8486.20.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Equipment for developing exposed\nwafers :', '', ''], ['8274', '8486.20.51', '- - - Dicing machines for scribing or\nscoring semiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8275', '8486.20.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8276', '8486.20.91', '- - - Lasercutters for cutting contacting\ntracks in semiconductor production by\nlaser beam', '0%', 'E0'], ['8277', '8486.20.92', '- - - Machines for bending, folding and\nstraightening semiconductor leads', '0%', 'E0'], ['8278', '8486.20.93', '- - - Resistance heated furnaces and ovens\nfor the manufacture of semiconductor\ndevices on semiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8279', '8486.20.94', '- - - Inductance or dielectric furnaces and\novens for the manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices on semiconductor\nwafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8280', '8486.20.95', '- - - Automated machines for the\nplacement or the removal of components\nor contact elements on semiconductor\nmaterials', '0%', 'E0'], ['8281', '8486.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8486.30', '- Machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays :', '', ''], ['8282', '8486.30.10', '- - Apparatus for dry etching patterns on\nflat panel display substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['8283', '8486.30.20', '- - Apparatus for wet etching, developing,\nstripping or cleaning flat panel displays', '0%', 'E0'], ['8284', '8486.30.30', '- - Chemical vapour deposition apparatus\nfor flat panel display production; spinners\nfor coating photosensitive emulsions on\nflat panel display substrates; apparatus for\nphysical deposition on flat panel display\nsubstrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['8285', '8486.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8486.40', '- Machines and apparatus specified in\nNote 9 (C) to this Chapter :', '', ''], ['8286', '8486.40.10', '- - Focused ion beam milling machines to\nproduce or repair masks and reticles for\npatterns on semiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8287', '8486.40.20', '- - Die attach apparatus, tape automated\nbonders, wire bonders and encapsulation\nequipment for the assembly of\nsemiconductors; automated machines for\ntransport, handling and storage of\nsemiconductor wafers, wafer cassettes,\nwafer boxes and other materials for\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8288', '8486.40.30', '- - Moulds for manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8289', '8486.40.40', '- - Optical stereoscopic microscopes fitted\nwith equipment specifically designed for\nthe handling and transport of\nsemiconductor wafers or reticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8290', '8486.40.50', '- - Photomicrographic microscopes fitted\nwith equipment specifically designed for\nthe handling and transport of\nsemiconductor wafers or reticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8291', '8486.40.60', '- - Electron beam microscopes fitted with\nequipment specifically designed for the\nhandling and transport of semiconductor\nwafers or reticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8292', '8486.40.70', '- - Pattern generating apparatus of a kind\nused for producing masks or reticles from\nphotoresist coated substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['8293', '8486.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8486.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of boules or wafers :', '', ''], ['8294', '8486.90.11', '- - - Of apparatus for rapid heating of\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8295', '8486.90.12', '- - - Of spin dryers for semiconductor\nwafer processing', '0%', 'E0'], ['8296', '8486.90.13', '- - - Of machines for working any\nmaterial by removal of material, by laser\nor other light or photon beam in the\nproduction of semiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of machines for sawing monocrystal\nsemiconductor boules into slices, or\nwafers into chips :', '', ''], ['8297', '8486.90.14', '- - - - Tool holders and self-opening\ndieheads; work holders; dividing heads\nand other special attachments for machine\ntools', '0%', 'E0'], ['8298', '8486.90.15', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8299', '8486.90.16', '- - - Of grinding, polishing and lapping\nmachines for processing of semiconductor\nwafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8300', '8486.90.17', '- - - Of apparatus for growing or pulling\nmonocrystal semiconductor boules', '0%', 'E0'], ['8301', '8486.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of semiconductor devices or', '', ''], ['', '', 'of electronic integrated circuits :', '', ''], ['8302', '8486.90.21', '- - - Of chemical vapour deposition\napparatus for semiconductor production', '0%', 'E0'], ['8303', '8486.90.22', '- - - Of epitaxial deposition machines for\nsemiconductor wafers; of spinners for\ncoating photographic emulsions on\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8304', '8486.90.23', '- - - Of ion implanters for doping\nsemiconductor materials; of apparatus for\nphysical deposition by sputtering on\nsemiconductor wafers; of physical\ndeposition apparatus for semiconductor\nproduction; of direct write-on-wafer\napparatus, step and repeat aligners and\nother lithography equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of spraying appliances for etching,\nstripping or cleaning semiconductor\nwafers; of apparatus for wet etching,\ndeveloping, stripping or cleaning\nsemiconductor wafers; of dry-etching\npatterns on semiconductor materials :', '', ''], ['8305', '8486.90.24', '- - - - Tool holders and self-opening\ndieheads; work holders; dividing heads\nand other special attachments for machine\ntools', '0%', 'E0'], ['8306', '8486.90.25', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of dicing machines for scribing or\nscoring semiconductor wafers; of\nlasercutters for cutting tracks in\nsemiconductor production by laser beam;\nof machines for bending, folding and\nstraightening semiconductor leads :', '', ''], ['8307', '8486.90.26', '- - - - Tool holders and self-opening\ndieheads; workholders; dividing heads\nand other special attachments for machine\ntools', '0%', 'E0'], ['8308', '8486.90.27', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8309', '8486.90.28', '- - - Of resistance heated furnaces and\novens for the manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices on semiconductor\nwafers; of inductance or dielectric\nfurnaces and ovens for the manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices on semiconductor\nwafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8310', '8486.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines and apparatus for the\nmanufacture of flat panel displays :', '', ''], ['8311', '8486.90.31', '- - - Of apparatus for dry etching patterns\non flat panel display substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of apparatus for wet etching,\ndeveloping, stripping or cleaning flat\npanel displays :', '', ''], ['8312', '8486.90.32', '- - - - Tool holders and self-opening\ndieheads; work holders; dividing heads\nand other special attachments for machine\ntools', '0%', 'E0'], ['8313', '8486.90.33', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8314', '8486.90.34', '- - - Of chemical vapour deposition\napparatus for flat panel display production', '0%', 'E0'], ['8315', '8486.90.35', '- - - Of spinners for coating\nphotosensitive emulsions on flat panel\ndisplay substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['8316', '8486.90.36', '- - - Of apparatus for physical deposition\non flat panel display substrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['8317', '8486.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of machines or apparatus specified in\nNote 9 (C) to this Chapter :', '', ''], ['8318', '8486.90.41', '- - - Of focused ion beam milling machine\nto produce or repair masks and reticles for\npatterns on semiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8319', '8486.90.42', '- - - Of die attach apparatus, tape\nautomated bonders, wire bonders and of\nencapsulation equipment for assembly of\nsemiconductors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8320', '8486.90.43', '- - - Of automated machines for the\ntransport, handling and storage of\nsemiconductor wafers, wafer cassettes,\nwafer boxes and other materials for\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8321', '8486.90.44', '- - - Of optical stereoscopic and\nphotomicrographic microscopes fitted\nwith equipment specifically designed for\nthe handling and transport of\nsemiconductor wafers or reticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8322', '8486.90.45', '- - - Of electron beam microscopes fitted\nwith equipment specifically designed for\nthe handling and transport of\nsemiconductor wafers or reticles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8323', '8486.90.46', '- - - Of pattern generating apparatus of a\nkind used for producing masks or reticles\nfrom photoresist coated substrates,\nincluding printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8324', '8486.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '84.87', 'Machinery parts, not containing\nelectrical connectors, insulators, coils,\ncontacts or other electrical features, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['8325', '8487.10.00', '- Ships’ or boats’ propellers and blades\ntherefor', '0%', 'E0'], ['8326', '8487.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.01', 'Electric motors and generators\n(excluding generating sets).', '', ''], ['', '8501.10', '- Motors of an output not exceeding 37.5\nW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - DC motors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Stepper motors :', '', ''], ['8327', '8501.10.21', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8328', '8501.10.22', '- - - - Other, of an output not exceeding 5\nW', '0%', 'E0'], ['8329', '8501.10.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8330', '8501.10.30', '- - - Spindle motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8331', '8501.10.41', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8332', '8501.10.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other motors including universal\n(AC/DC) motors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Stepper motors :', '', ''], ['8333', '8501.10.51', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8334', '8501.10.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8335', '8501.10.60', '- - - Spindle motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8336', '8501.10.91', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8337', '8501.10.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8501.20', '- Universal AC/DC motors of an output\nexceeding 37.5 W :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of an output not exceeding 1 kW :', '', ''], ['8338', '8501.20.12', '- - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8339', '8501.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of an output exceeding 1 kW :', '', ''], ['8340', '8501.20.21', '- - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8341', '8501.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other DC motors; DC generators :', '', ''], ['', '8501.31', '- - Of an output not exceeding 750 W :', '', ''], ['8342', '8501.31.30', '- - - Motors of a kind used for the goods\nof heading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8343', '8501.31.40', '- - - Other motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8344', '8501.31.50', '- - - Generators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8501.32', '- - Of an output exceeding 750 W but not\nexceeding 75 kW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of an output exceeding 750 W but\nnot exceeding 37.5 kW :', '', ''], ['8345', '8501.32.21', '- - - - Motors of a kind used for the goods\nof heading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '85.16', '', ''], ['8346', '8501.32.22', '- - - - Other motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8347', '8501.32.23', '- - - - Generators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of an output exceeding 37.5 kW but\nnot exceeding 75 kW :', '', ''], ['8348', '8501.32.31', '- - - - Motors of a kind used for the goods\nof heading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8349', '8501.32.32', '- - - - Other motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8350', '8501.32.33', '- - - - Generators', '0%', 'E0'], ['8351', '8501.33.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 75 kW but not\nexceeding 375 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['8352', '8501.34.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 375 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8501.40', '- Other AC motors, single-phase :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of an output not exceeding 1 kW :', '', ''], ['8353', '8501.40.11', '- - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8354', '8501.40.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of an output exceeding 1 kW :', '', ''], ['8355', '8501.40.21', '- - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8356', '8501.40.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other AC motors, multi-phase :', '', ''], ['', '8501.51', '- - Of an output not exceeding 750 W :', '', ''], ['8357', '8501.51.11', '- - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8358', '8501.51.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8501.52', '- - Of an output exceeding 750 W but not\nexceeding 75 kW :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 1 kW :', '', ''], ['8359', '8501.52.11', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8360', '8501.52.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of an output exceeding 1 kW but not\nexceeding 37.5 kW :', '', ''], ['8361', '8501.52.21', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8362', '8501.52.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of an output exceeding 37.5 kW but\nnot exceeding 75 kW :', '', ''], ['8363', '8501.52.31', '- - - - Of a kind used for the goods of\nheading 84.15, 84.18, 84.50, 85.09 or\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8364', '8501.52.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8365', '8501.53.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 75 kW', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- AC generators (alternators) :', '', ''], ['', '8501.61', '- - Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA :', '', ''], ['8366', '8501.61.10', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 12.5 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8367', '8501.61.20', '- - - Of an output exceeding 12.5 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8501.62', '- - Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not\nexceeding 375 kVA :', '', ''], ['8368', '8501.62.10', '- - - Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 150 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8369', '8501.62.20', '- - - Of an output exceeding 150 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8370', '8501.63.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 375 kVA but\nnot exceeding 750 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8371', '8501.64.00', '- - Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.02', 'Electric generating sets and rotary\nconverters.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Generating sets with compression-\nignition internal combustion piston\nengines (diesel or semi-diesel engines) :', '', ''], ['8372', '8502.11.00', '- - Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8502.12', '- - Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not\nexceeding 375 kVA :', '', ''], ['8373', '8502.12.10', '- - - Of an ouput exceeding 75 kVA but\nnot exceeding 125 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8374', '8502.12.20', '- - - Of an output exceeding 125 kVA but\nnot exceeding 375 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8502.13', '- - Of an output exceeding 375 kVA :', '', ''], ['8375', '8502.13.20', '- - - Of an output of 12,500 kVA or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8376', '8502.13.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8502.20', '- Generating sets with spark-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engines :', '', ''], ['8377', '8502.20.10', '- - Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8378', '8502.20.20', '- - Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not\nexceeding 100 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8379', '8502.20.30', '- - Of an output exceeding 100 kVA but\nnot exceeding 10,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of an output exceeding 10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8380', '8502.20.42', '- - - Of an output of 12,500 kVA or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8381', '8502.20.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other generating sets :', '', ''], ['', '8502.31', '- - Wind-powered :', '', ''], ['8382', '8502.31.10', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 10,000\nkVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8383', '8502.31.20', '- - - Of an output exceeding 10,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8502.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8384', '8502.39.10', '- - - Of an output not exceeding 10 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8385', '8502.39.20', '- - - Of an output exceeding 10 kVA but\nnot exceeding 10,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of an output exceeding 10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8386', '8502.39.32', '- - - - Of an output of 12,500 kVA or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8387', '8502.39.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8388', '8502.40.00', '- Electric rotary converters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.03', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the machines of\nheading 85.01 or 85.02.', '', ''], ['8389', '8503.00.20', '- Parts of generators (including generating\nsets) of heading 85.01 or 85.02, of an\noutput of 12,500 kVA or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8390', '8503.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.04', 'Electrical transformers, static\nconverters (for example, rectifiers) and\ninductors.', '', ''], ['8391', '8504.10.00', '- Ballasts for discharge lamps or tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Liquid dielectric transformers :', '', ''], ['', '8504.21', '- - Having a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 650 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Step-voltage regulators (auto\ntransformers); instrument transformers\nwith a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 5 kVA :', '', ''], ['8392', '8504.21.11', '- - - - Instrument transformers with a\npower handling capacity not exceeding 1\nkVA and of a high side voltage of 110 kV\nor more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8393', '8504.21.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8394', '8504.21.92', '- - - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10 kVA and of a high side\nvoltage of 110 kV or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8395', '8504.21.93', '- - - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10 kVA and of a high side\nvoltage of 66 kV or more, but less than\n110 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8396', '8504.21.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.22', '- - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 650 kVA but not exceeding\n10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Step-voltage regulators (auto\ntransformers) :', '', ''], ['8397', '8504.22.11', '- - - - Of a high side voltage of 66 kV or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['8398', '8504.22.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8399', '8504.22.92', '- - - - Of a high side voltage of 110 kV or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['8400', '8504.22.93', '- - - - Of a high side voltage of 66 kV or\nmore, but less than 110 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8401', '8504.22.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.23', '- - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8402', '8504.23.10', '- - - Having a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 15,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 15,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8403', '8504.23.21', '- - - - Not exceeding 20,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8404', '8504.23.22', '- - - - Exceeding 20,000 kVA but not\nexceeding 30,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8405', '8504.23.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other transformers :', '', ''], ['', '8504.31', '- - Having a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 1 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Instrument potential transformers :', '', ''], ['8406', '8504.31.11', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 110 kV or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['8407', '8504.31.12', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 66 kV or\nmore, but less than 110 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8408', '8504.31.13', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 1 kV or\nmore, but less than 66 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8409', '8504.31.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Instrument current transformers :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 110 kV or\nmore :', '', ''], ['8410', '8504.31.21', '- - - - - Ring type current transformers\nwith a voltage rating not exceeding 220\nkV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8411', '8504.31.22', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8412', '8504.31.23', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 66 kV or\nmore, but less than 110 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8413', '8504.31.24', '- - - - With a voltage rating of 1 kV or\nmore, but less than 66 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8414', '8504.31.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8415', '8504.31.30', '- - - Flyback transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8416', '8504.31.40', '- - - Intermediate frequency transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8417', '8504.31.91', '- - - - Of a kind used with toys, scale\nmodels or similar recreational models', '0%', 'E0'], ['8418', '8504.31.92', '- - - - Other matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8419', '8504.31.93', '- - - - Step up / down transformers; slide\nregulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['8420', '8504.31.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.32', '- - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 1 kVA but not exceeding 16\nkVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Instrument transformers (potential\nand current) of a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 5 kVA :', '', ''], ['8421', '8504.32.11', '- - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8422', '8504.32.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8423', '8504.32.20', '- - - Other, of a kind used with toys, scale\nmodels or similar recreational models', '0%', 'E0'], ['8424', '8504.32.30', '- - - Other, having a minimum frequency\nof 3 MHz', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, of a power handling capacity\nnot exceeding 10 kVA :', '', ''], ['8425', '8504.32.41', '- - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8426', '8504.32.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, of a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10 kVA :', '', ''], ['8427', '8504.32.51', '- - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8428', '8504.32.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.33', '- - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 16 kVA but not exceeding 500\nkVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a high side voltage of 66 kV or\nmore :', '', ''], ['8429', '8504.33.11', '- - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8430', '8504.33.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8431', '8504.33.91', '- - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8432', '8504.33.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.34', '- - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 500 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Having a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 15,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10,000 kVA and of a high side\nvoltage of 66 kV or more :', '', ''], ['8433', '8504.34.11', '- - - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8434', '8504.34.12', '- - - - - Explosion proof dry type\ntransformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8435', '8504.34.13', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8436', '8504.34.14', '- - - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8437', '8504.34.15', '- - - - - Explosion proof dry type\ntransformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8438', '8504.34.16', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 15,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Of a high side voltage of 66 kV or\nmore :', '', ''], ['8439', '8504.34.22', '- - - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8440', '8504.34.23', '- - - - - Explosion proof dry type\ntransformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8441', '8504.34.24', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8442', '8504.34.25', '- - - - - Matching transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8443', '8504.34.26', '- - - - - Explosion proof dry type\ntransformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8444', '8504.34.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.40', '- Static converters :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For automatic data processing\nmachines and units thereof, and\ntelecommunications apparatus :', '', ''], ['8445', '8504.40.11', '- - - Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS)', '0%', 'E0'], ['8446', '8504.40.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8447', '8504.40.20', '- - Battery chargers having a rating\nexceeding 100 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8448', '8504.40.30', '- - Other rectifiers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8449', '8504.40.40', '- - Inverters', '0%', 'E0'], ['8450', '8504.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.50', '- Other inductors :', '', ''], ['8451', '8504.50.10', '- - Inductors for power supplies for\nautomatic data processing machines and\nunits thereof, and for telecommunications\napparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8452', '8504.50.20', '- - Chip type fixed inductors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8453', '8504.50.93', '- - - Having a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 2,500 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8454', '8504.50.94', '- - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 2,500 kVA but not exceeding\n10,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['8455', '8504.50.95', '- - - Having a power handling capacity\nexceeding 10,000 kVA', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8504.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8456', '8504.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 8504.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8457', '8504.90.20', '- - Printed circuit assemblies for the goods\nof subheading 8504.40.11, 8504.40.19 or\n8504.50.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For electrical transformers of a\ncapacity not exceeding 10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8458', '8504.90.31', '- - - Radiator panels; flat tube radiator\nassemblies of a kind used for distribution\nand power transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8459', '8504.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For electrical transformers of a\ncapacity exceeding 10,000 kVA :', '', ''], ['8460', '8504.90.41', '- - - Radiator panels; flat tube radiator\nassemblies of a kind used for distribution\nand power transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8461', '8504.90.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8462', '8504.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.05', 'Electro-magnets; permanent magnets\nand articles intended to become\npermanent magnets after\nmagnetisation; electro-magnetic or\npermanent magnet chucks, clamps and\nsimilar holding devices; electro-\nmagnetic couplings, clutches and\nbrakes; electro-magnetic lifting heads.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Permanent magnets and articles intended\nto become permanent magnets after\nmagnetisation :', '', ''], ['8463', '8505.11.00', '- - Of metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['8464', '8505.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8465', '8505.20.00', '- Electro-magnetic couplings, clutches\nand brakes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8466', '8505.90.00', '- Other, including parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.06', 'Primary cells and primary batteries.', '', ''], ['', '8506.10', '- Manganese dioxide :', '', ''], ['8467', '8506.10.10', '- - Having an external volume not\nexceeding 300 cm3', '15%', 'EX'], ['8468', '8506.10.90', '- - Other', '15%', 'EX'], ['8469', '8506.30.00', '- Mercuric oxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['8470', '8506.40.00', '- Silver oxide', '0%', 'E0'], ['8471', '8506.50.00', '- Lithium', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8506.60', '- Air-zinc :', '', ''], ['8472', '8506.60.10', '- - Having an external volume not\nexceeding 300 cm3', '0%', 'E0'], ['8473', '8506.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8506.80', '- Other primary cells and primary\nbatteries :', '', ''], ['8474', '8506.80.10', '- - Zinc carbon, having an external\nvolume not exceeding 300 cm3', '0%', 'E0'], ['8475', '8506.80.20', '- - Zinc carbon, having an external\nvolume exceeding 300 cm3', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8476', '8506.80.91', '- - - Having an external volume not\nexceeding 300 cm3', '0%', 'E0'], ['8477', '8506.80.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8478', '8506.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.07', 'Electric accumulators, including\nseparators therefor, whether or not\nrectangular (including square).', '', ''], ['', '8507.10', '- Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting\npiston engines :', '', ''], ['8479', '8507.10.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Nominal voltage of 6 V or 12 V, with\na discharge capacity not exceeding 200\nAh :', '', ''], ['8480', '8507.10.92', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) not exceeding 13 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8481', '8507.10.95', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 13 cm but not\nexceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8482', '8507.10.96', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8483', '8507.10.97', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) not exceeding 13 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8484', '8507.10.98', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 13 cm but not\nexceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8485', '8507.10.99', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.20', '- Other lead-acid accumulators :', '', ''], ['8486', '8507.20.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Nominal voltage of 6 V or 12 V, with\na discharge capacity not exceeding 200\nAh :', '', ''], ['8487', '8507.20.94', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) not exceeding 13 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8488', '8507.20.95', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 13 cm but not\nexceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8489', '8507.20.96', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8490', '8507.20.97', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) not exceeding 13 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8491', '8507.20.98', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 13 cm but not\nexceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8492', '8507.20.99', '- - - - Of a height (excluding terminals\nand handles) exceeding 23 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.30', '- Nickel-cadmium :', '', ''], ['8493', '8507.30.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8494', '8507.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.40', '- Nickel-iron :', '', ''], ['8495', '8507.40.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8496', '8507.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.50', '- Nickel-metal hydride :', '', ''], ['8497', '8507.50.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8498', '8507.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.60', '- Lithium-ion :', '', ''], ['8499', '8507.60.10', '- - Of a kind used for laptops including\nnotebooks and subnotebooks', '0%', 'E0'], ['8500', '8507.60.20', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8501', '8507.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.80', '- Other accumulators :', '', ''], ['8502', '8507.80.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8503', '8507.80.20', '- - Of a kind used for laptops including\nnotebooks and subnotebooks', '0%', 'E0'], ['8504', '8507.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8507.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Plates :', '', ''], ['8505', '8507.90.11', '- - - Of goods of subheading 8507.10.92,\n8507.10.95, 8507.10.96, 8507.10.97,\n8507.10.98 or 8507.10.99', '0%', 'E0'], ['8506', '8507.90.12', '- - - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8507', '8507.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8508', '8507.90.91', '- - - Of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['8509', '8507.90.92', '- - - Battery separators, ready for use, of\nmaterials other than poly(vinyl chloride)', '0%', 'E0'], ['8510', '8507.90.93', '- - - Other, of goods of subheading\n8507.10.92, 8507.10.95, 8507.10.96,\n8507.10.97, 8507.10.98 or 8507.10.99', '0%', 'E0'], ['8511', '8507.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.08', 'Vacuum cleaners.', '', ''], ['', '', '- With self-contained electric motor :', '', ''], ['8512', '8508.11.00', '- - Of a power not exceeding 1,500 W and\nhaving a dust bag or other receptacle\ncapacity not exceeding 20 l', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8508.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8513', '8508.19.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for domestic use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8514', '8508.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8515', '8508.60.00', '- Other vacuum cleaners', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8508.70', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8516', '8508.70.10', '- - Of vacuum cleaners of subheading\n8508.11.00 or 8508.19.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8517', '8508.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.09', 'Electro-mechanical domestic\nappliances, with self-contained electric\nmotor, other than vacuum cleaners of\nheading 85.08.', '', ''], ['8518', '8509.40.00', '- Food grinders and mixers; fruit or\nvegetable juice extractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8509.80', '- Other appliances :', '', ''], ['8519', '8509.80.10', '- - Floor polishers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8520', '8509.80.20', '- - Kitchen waste disposers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8521', '8509.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8509.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8522', '8509.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 8509.80.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8523', '8509.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.10', 'Shavers, hair clippers and hair-\nremoving appliances, with self-\ncontained electric motor.', '', ''], ['8524', '8510.10.00', '- Shavers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8525', '8510.20.00', '- Hair clippers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8526', '8510.30.00', '- Hair-removing appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['8527', '8510.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.11', 'Electrical ignition or starting\nequipment of a kind used for spark-\nignition or compression-ignition\ninternal combustion engines (for\nexample, ignition magnetos, magneto-\ndynamos, ignition coils, sparking plugs\nand glow plugs, starter motors);\ngenerators (for example, dynamos,\nalternators) and cut-outs of a kind used\nin conjunction with such engines.', '', ''], ['', '8511.10', '- Sparking plugs :', '', ''], ['8528', '8511.10.10', '- - Of a kind suitable for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8529', '8511.10.20', '- - Of a kind suitable for motor vehicle\nengines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8530', '8511.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.20', '- Ignition magnetos; magneto-dynamos;\nmagnetic flywheels :', '', ''], ['8531', '8511.20.10', '- - Of a kind suitable for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a kind suitable for motor vehicle\nengines :', '', ''], ['8532', '8511.20.21', '- - - Unassembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['8533', '8511.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8534', '8511.20.91', '- - - Unassembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['8535', '8511.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.30', '- Distributors; ignition coils :', '', ''], ['8536', '8511.30.30', '- - Of a kind suitable for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of a kind suitable for motor vehicle\nengines :', '', ''], ['8537', '8511.30.41', '- - - Unassembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['8538', '8511.30.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8539', '8511.30.91', '- - - Unassembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['8540', '8511.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.40', '- Starter motors and dual purpose starter-\ngenerators :', '', ''], ['8541', '8511.40.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other unassembled starter motors :', '', ''], ['8542', '8511.40.21', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['8543', '8511.40.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Assembled starter motors for engines\nof vehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05 :', '', ''], ['8544', '8511.40.31', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['8545', '8511.40.32', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['8546', '8511.40.33', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8547', '8511.40.91', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['8548', '8511.40.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.50', '- Other generators :', '', ''], ['8549', '8511.50.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other unassembled alternators :', '', ''], ['8550', '8511.50.21', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['8551', '8511.50.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Assembled alternators for engines of\nvehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05 :', '', ''], ['8552', '8511.50.31', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['8553', '8511.50.32', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['8554', '8511.50.33', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8555', '8511.50.91', '- - - For engines of vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['8556', '8511.50.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.80', '- Other equipment :', '', ''], ['8557', '8511.80.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8558', '8511.80.20', '- - Of a kind suitable for motor vehicles\nengines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8559', '8511.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8511.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8560', '8511.90.10', '- - Of a kind used for aircraft engines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8561', '8511.90.20', '- - Of a kind suitable for motor vehicles\nengines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8562', '8511.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.12', 'Electrical lighting or signalling\nequipment (excluding articles of\nheading 85.39), windscreen wipers,\ndefrosters and demisters, of a kind used\nfor cycles or motor vehicles.', '', ''], ['8563', '8512.10.00', '- Lighting or visual signalling equipment\nof a kind used on bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8512.20', '- Other lighting or visual signalling\nequipment :', '', ''], ['8564', '8512.20.20', '- - Unassembled lighting or visual\nsignalling equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8565', '8512.20.91', '- - - For motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8566', '8512.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8512.30', '- Sound signalling equipment :', '', ''], ['8567', '8512.30.10', '- - Horns and sirens, assembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['8568', '8512.30.20', '- - Unassembled sound signalling\nequipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8569', '8512.30.91', '- - - Obstacle detection (warning) devices\nfor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8570', '8512.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8571', '8512.40.00', '- Windscreen wipers, defrosters and\ndemisters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8512.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8572', '8512.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 8512.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8573', '8512.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 8512.20,\n8512.30 or 8512.40', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.13', 'Portable electric lamps designed to\nfunction by their own source of energy\n(for example, dry batteries,\naccumulators, magnetos), other than\nlighting equipment of heading 85.12.', '', ''], ['', '8513.10', '- Lamps :', '', ''], ['8574', '8513.10.30', '- - Miners’ helmet lamps and quarrymen’s\nlamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['8575', '8513.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8513.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8576', '8513.90.10', '- - Of miners’ helmet lamps or\nquarrymen’s lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['8577', '8513.90.30', '- - Flashlight reflectors; flashlight switch\nslides of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['8578', '8513.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.14', 'Industrial or laboratory electric\nfurnaces and ovens (including those\nfunctioning by induction or dielectric\nloss); other industrial or laboratory\nequipment for the heat treatment of\nmaterials by induction or dielectric\nloss.', '', ''], ['8579', '8514.10.00', '- Resistance heated furnaces and ovens', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8514.20', '- Furnaces and ovens functioning by\ninduction or dielectric loss :', '', ''], ['8580', '8514.20.20', '- - Electric furnaces or ovens for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8581', '8514.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8514.30', '- Other furnaces and ovens :', '', ''], ['8582', '8514.30.20', '- - Electric furnaces or ovens for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8583', '8514.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8584', '8514.40.00', '- Other equipment for the heat treatment\nof materials by induction or dielectric loss', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8514.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8585', '8514.90.20', '- - Parts of industrial or laboratory electric\nfurnaces or ovens for the manufacture of\nprinted circuit boards/printed wiring\nboards or printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8586', '8514.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.15', 'Electric (including electrically heated\ngas), laser or other light or photon\nbeam, ultrasonic, electron beam,\nmagnetic pulse or plasma arc soldering,\nbrazing or welding machines and\napparatus, whether or not capable of\ncutting; electric machines and\napparatus for hot spraying of metals or\ncermets.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Brazing or soldering machines and\napparatus :', '', ''], ['8587', '8515.11.00', '- - Soldering irons and guns', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8515.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8588', '8515.19.10', '- - - Machines and apparatus for soldering\ncomponents on printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8589', '8515.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Machines and apparatus for resistance\nwelding of metal :', '', ''], ['8590', '8515.21.00', '- - Fully or partly automatic', '0%', 'E0'], ['8591', '8515.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Machines and apparatus for arc\n(including plasma arc) welding of metals :', '', ''], ['8592', '8515.31.00', '- - Fully or partly automatic', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8515.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8593', '8515.39.10', '- - - AC arc welders, transformer type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8594', '8515.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8515.80', '- Other machines and apparatus :', '', ''], ['8595', '8515.80.10', '- - Electric machines and apparatus for\nhot spraying of metals or sintered metal\ncarbides', '0%', 'E0'], ['8596', '8515.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8515.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8597', '8515.90.10', '- - Of AC arc welders, transformer type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8598', '8515.90.20', '- - Parts of machine and apparatus for\nsoldering components on printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8599', '8515.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.16', 'Electric instantaneous or storage water\nheaters and immersion heaters; electric\nspace heating apparatus and soil\nheating apparatus; electro-thermic\nhair-dressing apparatus (for example,\nhair dryers, hair curlers, curling tong\nheaters) and hand dryers; electric\nsmoothing irons; other electro-thermic\nappliances of a kind used for domestic\npurposes; electric heating resistors,\nother than those of heading 85.45.', '', ''], ['', '8516.10', '- Electric instantaneous or storage water\nheaters and immersion heaters :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Instantaneous or storage water heaters :', '', ''], ['8600', '8516.10.11', '- - - Water dispenser fitted only with\nwater heater, for domestic use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8601', '8516.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8602', '8516.10.30', '- - Immersion heaters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Electric space heating apparatus and\nelectric soil heating apparatus :', '', ''], ['8603', '8516.21.00', '- - Storage heating radiators', '0%', 'E0'], ['8604', '8516.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Electro-thermic hair-dressing or hand-\ndrying apparatus :', '', ''], ['8605', '8516.31.00', '- - Hair dryers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8606', '8516.32.00', '- - Other hair-dressing apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8607', '8516.33.00', '- - Hand-drying apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8516.40', '- Electric smoothing irons :', '', ''], ['8608', '8516.40.10', '- - Of a kind designed to use steam from\nindustrial boilers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8609', '8516.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8610', '8516.50.00', '- Microwave ovens', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8516.60', '- Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates,\nboiling rings, grillers and roasters :', '', ''], ['8611', '8516.60.10', '- - Rice cookers', '5%', 'EX'], ['8612', '8516.60.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other electro-thermic appliances :', '', ''], ['8613', '8516.71.00', '- - Coffee or tea makers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8614', '8516.72.00', '- - Toasters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8516.79', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8615', '8516.79.10', '- - - Kettles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8616', '8516.79.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8516.80', '- Electric heating resistors :', '', ''], ['8617', '8516.80.10', '- - For type-founding or type-setting\nmachines; for industrial furnaces', '0%', 'E0'], ['8618', '8516.80.30', '- - For domestic appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['8619', '8516.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8516.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of goods of subheading 8516.33,\n8516.50, 8516.60, 8516.71 or\n8516.79.10 :', '', ''], ['8620', '8516.90.21', '- - - Sealed hotplates for domestic\nappliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['8621', '8516.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8622', '8516.90.30', '- - Of goods of subheading 8516.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['8623', '8516.90.40', '- - Of electric heating resistors for type-\nfounding or type-setting machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8624', '8516.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.17', 'Telephone sets, including telephones for\ncellular networks or for other wireless\nnetworks; other apparatus for the\ntransmission or reception of voice,\nimages or other data, including\napparatus for communication in a\nwired or wireless networks (such as a\nlocal or wide area network), other than\ntransmission or reception apparatus of\nheading 84.43, 85.25, 85.27 or 85.28.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Telephone sets, including telephones for\ncellular networks or for other wireless\nnetworks :', '', ''], ['8625', '8517.11.00', '- - Line telephone sets with cordless\nhandsets', '0%', 'E0'], ['8626', '8517.12.00', '- - Telephones for cellular networks or for\nother wireless networks', '0%', 'E0'], ['8627', '8517.18.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other apparatus for transmission or\nreception of voice, images or other data,\nincluding apparatus for communication in\na wired or wireless network (such as a\nlocal or wide area network) :', '', ''], ['8628', '8517.61.00', '- - Base stations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8517.62', '- - Machines for the reception, conversion\nand transmission or regeneration of voice,\nimages or other data, including switching\nand routing apparatus :', '', ''], ['8629', '8517.62.10', '- - - Radio transmitters and radio receivers\nof a kind used for simultaneous\ninterpretation at multilingual conferences', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Units of automatic data processing\nmachines other than units of heading\n84.71 :', '', ''], ['8630', '8517.62.21', '- - - - Control and adaptor units, including\ngateways, bridges and routers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8631', '8517.62.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8632', '8517.62.30', '- - - Telephonic or telegraphic switching\napparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Apparatus for carrier-current line\nsystems or for digital line systems :', '', ''], ['8633', '8517.62.41', '- - - - Modems including cable modems\nand modem cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['8634', '8517.62.42', '- - - - Concentrators or multiplexers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8635', '8517.62.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other transmission apparatus\nincorporating reception apparatus :', '', ''], ['8636', '8517.62.51', '- - - - Wireless LANs', '0%', 'E0'], ['8637', '8517.62.52', '- - - - Transmission and reception\napparatus of a kind used for simultaneous\ninterpretation at multilingual conferences', '0%', 'E0'], ['8638', '8517.62.53', '- - - - Other transmission apparatus for\nradio-telephony or radio-telegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8639', '8517.62.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other transmission apparatus :', '', ''], ['8640', '8517.62.61', '- - - - For radio-telephony or radio-\ntelegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8641', '8517.62.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8642', '8517.62.91', '- - - - Portable receivers for calling,\nalerting or paging and paging alert\ndevices, including pagers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8643', '8517.62.92', '- - - - For radio-telephony or radio-\ntelegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8644', '8517.62.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8645', '8517.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8517.70', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8646', '8517.70.10', '- - Of control and adaptor units including\ngateways, bridges and routers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of transmission apparatus, other than\nradio-broadcasting or television\ntransmission apparatus, or of portable\nreceivers for calling, alerting or paging\nand paging alert devices, including\npagers :', '', ''], ['8647', '8517.70.21', '- - - Of cellular telephones', '0%', 'E0'], ['8648', '8517.70.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other printed circuit boards,\nassembled :', '', ''], ['8649', '8517.70.31', '- - - Of goods for line telephony or line\ntelegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8650', '8517.70.32', '- - - Of goods for radio-telephony or\nradio-telegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8651', '8517.70.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8652', '8517.70.40', '- - Aerials or antennae of a kind used with\napparatus for radio-telephony and radio-\ntelegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8653', '8517.70.91', '- - - Of goods for line telephony or line\ntelegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8654', '8517.70.92', '- - - Of goods for radio-telephony or\nradio-telegraphy', '0%', 'E0'], ['8655', '8517.70.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.18', 'Microphones and stands therefor;\nloudspeakers, whether or not mounted\nin their enclosures; headphones and\nearphones, whether or not combined\nwith a microphone, and sets consisting\nof a microphone and one or more\nloudspeakers; audio-frequency electric\namplifiers; electric sound amplifier\nsets.', '', ''], ['', '8518.10', '- Microphones and stands therefor :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Microphones :', '', ''], ['8656', '8518.10.11', '- - - Microphones having a frequency\nrange of 300 Hz to 3,400 Hz, with a\ndiameter not exceeding 10 mm and a\nheight not exceeding 3 mm, for\ntelecommunication use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8657', '8518.10.19', '- - - Other microphones, whether or not\nwith their stands', '0%', 'E0'], ['8658', '8518.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Loudspeakers, whether or not mounted\nin their enclosures :', '', ''], ['', '8518.21', '- - Single loudspeakers, mounted in their\nenclosures :', '', ''], ['8659', '8518.21.10', '- - - Box speaker type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8660', '8518.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8518.22', '- - Multiple loudspeakers, mounted in the\nsame enclosure :', '', ''], ['8661', '8518.22.10', '- - - Box speaker type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8662', '8518.22.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8518.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8663', '8518.29.20', '- - - Loudspeakers, without enclosure,\nhaving a frequency range of 300 Hz to\n3,400 Hz, with a diameter not exceeding\n50 mm, for telecommunication use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8664', '8518.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8518.30', '- Headphones and earphones, whether or\nnot combined with a microphone, and sets\nconsisting of a microphone and one or\nmore loudspeakers :', '', ''], ['8665', '8518.30.10', '- - Headphones', '0%', 'E0'], ['8666', '8518.30.20', '- - Earphones', '0%', 'E0'], ['8667', '8518.30.40', '- - Line telephone handsets', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other combined microphone/speaker', '', ''], ['', '', 'sets :', '', ''], ['8668', '8518.30.51', '- - - For goods of subheading 8517.12.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['8669', '8518.30.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8670', '8518.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8518.40', '- Audio-frequency electric amplifiers :', '', ''], ['8671', '8518.40.20', '- - Used as repeaters in line telephony', '0%', 'E0'], ['8672', '8518.40.30', '- - Used as repeaters in telephony other\nthan line telephony', '0%', 'E0'], ['8673', '8518.40.40', '- - Other, having 6 or more input signal\nlines, with or without elements for\ncapacity amplifiers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8674', '8518.40.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['', '8518.50', '- Electric sound amplifier sets :', '', ''], ['8675', '8518.50.10', '- - Having a power rating of 240 W or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['8676', '8518.50.20', '- - Other, with loudspeakers, of a kind\nsuitable for broadcasting, having a voltage\nrating of 50 V or more but not exceeding\n100 V', '0%', 'E0'], ['8677', '8518.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8518.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8678', '8518.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 8518.10.11,\n8518.29.20, 8518.30.40 or 8518.40.20,\nincluding printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8679', '8518.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 8518.40.40', '0%', 'E0'], ['8680', '8518.90.30', '- - Of goods of subheading 8518.21 or\n8518.22', '0%', 'E0'], ['8681', '8518.90.40', '- - Of goods of subheading 8518.29.90', '0%', 'E0'], ['8682', '8518.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.19', 'Sound recording or reproducing\napparatus.', '', ''], ['', '8519.20', '- Apparatus operated by coins, banknotes,\nbank cards, tokens or by other means of\npayment :', '', ''], ['8683', '8519.20.10', '- - Coins, tokens or disc operated record\nplayers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8684', '8519.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8685', '8519.30.00', '- Turntables (record-decks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['8686', '8519.50.00', '- Telephone answering machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '8519.81', '- - Using magnetic, optical or\nsemiconductor media :', '', ''], ['8687', '8519.81.10', '- - - Pocket-size cassette recorders, the\ndimensions of which do not exceed 170\nmm x 100 mm x 45 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8688', '8519.81.20', '- - - Cassette recorders, with built-in\namplifiers and one or more built-in\nloudspeakers, operating only with an\nexternal source of power', '0%', 'E0'], ['8689', '8519.81.30', '- - - Compact disc players', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Transcribing machines :', '', ''], ['8690', '8519.81.41', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography or broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8691', '8519.81.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8692', '8519.81.50', '- - - Dictating machines not capable of\noperating without an external source of\npower', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Magnetic tape recorders\nincorporating sound reproducing\napparatus, digital audio type :', '', ''], ['8693', '8519.81.61', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography or broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8694', '8519.81.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other sound reproducing apparatus,\ncassette type :', '', ''], ['8695', '8519.81.71', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography or broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8696', '8519.81.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8697', '8519.81.91', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography or broadcasting', '5%', 'E7'], ['8698', '8519.81.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8519.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Cinematographic sound reproducers :', '', ''], ['8699', '8519.89.11', '- - - - For film of a width of less than 16\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['8700', '8519.89.12', '- - - - For film of a width of 16 mm or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['8701', '8519.89.20', '- - - Record-players with or without\nloudspeakers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8702', '8519.89.30', '- - - Of a kind suitable for cinematography\nor broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8703', '8519.89.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.21', 'Video recording or reproducing\napparatus, whether or not\nincorporating a video tuner.', '', ''], ['', '8521.10', '- Magnetic tape-type :', '', ''], ['8704', '8521.10.10', '- - Of a kind used in cinematography or\ntelevision broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8705', '8521.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8521.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Laser disc players :', '', ''], ['8706', '8521.90.11', '- - - Of a kind used in cinematography or\ntelevision broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8707', '8521.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8708', '8521.90.91', '- - - Of a kind used in cinematography or\ntelevision broadcasting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8709', '8521.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.22', 'Parts and accessories suitable for use\nsolely or principally with the apparatus\nof heading 85.19 or 85.21.', '', ''], ['8710', '8522.10.00', '- Pick-up cartridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8522.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8711', '8522.90.20', '- - Printed circuit board assemblies for\ntelephone answering machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8712', '8522.90.30', '- - Printed circuit board assemblies for\ncinematographic sound recorders or\nreproducers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8713', '8522.90.40', '- - Audio or video tapedecks and compact\ndisc mechanisms', '0%', 'E0'], ['8714', '8522.90.50', '- - Audio or video reproduction heads,\nmagnetic type; magnetic erasing heads\nand rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8715', '8522.90.91', '- - - Other parts and accessories of\ncinematographic sound recorders or\nreproducers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8716', '8522.90.92', '- - - Other parts of telephone answering\nmachines', '0%', 'E0'], ['8717', '8522.90.93', '- - - Other parts and accessories for goods\nof subheading 8519.81 or heading 85.21', '0%', 'E0'], ['8718', '8522.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.23', 'Discs, tapes, solid-state non-volatile\nstorage devices, “smart cards” and\nother media for the recording of sound\nor of other phenomena, whether or not\nrecorded, including matrices and\nmasters for the production of discs, but\nexcluding products of Chapter 37.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Magnetic media :', '', ''], ['', '8523.21', '- - Cards incorporating a magnetic stripe :', '', ''], ['8719', '8523.21.10', '- - - Unrecorded', '0%', 'E0'], ['8720', '8523.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8523.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Magnetic tapes, of a width not\nexceeding 4 mm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8721', '8523.29.11', '- - - - - Computer tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8722', '8523.29.19', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8723', '8523.29.21', '- - - - - Video tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8724', '8523.29.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Magnetic tapes, of a width exceeding\n4 mm but not exceeding 6.5 mm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8725', '8523.29.31', '- - - - - Computer tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8726', '8523.29.33', '- - - - - Video tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8727', '8523.29.39', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8728', '8523.29.41', '- - - - - Computer tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8729', '8523.29.42', '- - - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['8730', '8523.29.43', '- - - - - Other video tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8731', '8523.29.49', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Magnetic tapes, of a width exceeding\n6.5 mm :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8732', '8523.29.51', '- - - - - Computer tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8733', '8523.29.52', '- - - - - Video tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8734', '8523.29.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8735', '8523.29.61', '- - - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nrepresentations of instructions, data,\nsound and image, recorded in a machine\nreadable binary form, and capable of\nbeing manipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine;\nproprietary format storage (recorded)\nmedia', '0%', 'E0'], ['8736', '8523.29.62', '- - - - - Of a kind suitable for\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['8737', '8523.29.63', '- - - - - Other video tapes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8738', '8523.29.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Magnetic discs :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8739', '8523.29.71', '- - - - - Computer hard disks and diskettes', '0%', 'E0'], ['8740', '8523.29.79', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image :', '', ''], ['8741', '8523.29.81', '- - - - - - Of a kind suitable for computer\nuse', '0%', 'E0'], ['8742', '8523.29.82', '- - - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8743', '8523.29.83', '- - - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['8744', '8523.29.85', '- - - - - Other, containing cinematographic\nmovies other than newsreels, travelogues,\ntechnical, scientific movies, and other\ndocumentary movies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8745', '8523.29.86', '- - - - - Other, of a kind suitable for\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['8746', '8523.29.89', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8747', '8523.29.91', '- - - - - Of a kind suitable for computer\nuse', '0%', 'E0'], ['8748', '8523.29.92', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image :', '', ''], ['8749', '8523.29.93', '- - - - - - Of a kind suitable for computer\nuse', '0%', 'E0'], ['8750', '8523.29.94', '- - - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8751', '8523.29.95', '- - - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['8752', '8523.29.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Optical media :', '', ''], ['', '8523.41', '- - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8753', '8523.41.10', '- - - Of a kind suitable for computer use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8754', '8523.41.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8523.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Discs for laser reading systems :', '', ''], ['8755', '8523.49.11', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nsound only :', '', ''], ['8756', '8523.49.12', '- - - - - Educational, technical, scientific,\nhistorical or cultural discs', '0%', 'E0'], ['8757', '8523.49.13', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8758', '8523.49.14', '- - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['8759', '8523.49.15', '- - - - Other, containing cinematographic\nmovies other than newsreels, travelogues,\ntechnical, scientific movies, and other\ndocumentary movies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8760', '8523.49.16', '- - - - Other, of a kind suitable for\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['8761', '8523.49.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8762', '8523.49.91', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image', '0%', 'E0'], ['8763', '8523.49.92', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nsound only', '0%', 'E0'], ['8764', '8523.49.93', '- - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['8765', '8523.49.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Semiconductor media :', '', ''], ['', '8523.51', '- - Solid-state non-volatile storage\ndevices :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8766', '8523.51.11', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for computer use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8767', '8523.51.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image :', '', ''], ['8768', '8523.51.21', '- - - - - Of a kind suitable for computer\nuse', '0%', 'E0'], ['8769', '8523.51.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8770', '8523.51.30', '- - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['8771', '8523.51.91', '- - - - - Other, containing cinematographic\nmovies other than newsreels, travelogues,\ntechnical, scientific movies, and other\ndocumentary movies', '0%', 'E0'], ['8772', '8523.51.92', '- - - - - Other, of a kind suitable for\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['8773', '8523.51.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8774', '8523.52.00', '- - “Smart cards”', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8523.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8775', '8523.59.10', '- - - Proximity cards and tags', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8776', '8523.59.21', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for computer use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8777', '8523.59.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8778', '8523.59.30', '- - - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image', '0%', 'E0'], ['8779', '8523.59.40', '- - - - Other, of a kind used for\nreproducing representations of\ninstructions, data, sound and image,\nrecorded in a machine readable binary\nform, and capable of being manipulated\nor providing interactivity to a user, by\nmeans of an automatic data processing\nmachine; proprietary format storage\n(recorded) media', '0%', 'E0'], ['8780', '8523.59.90', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8523.80', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8781', '8523.80.40', '- - Gramophone records', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, unrecorded :', '', ''], ['8782', '8523.80.51', '- - - Of a kind suitable for computer use', '0%', 'E0'], ['8783', '8523.80.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8784', '8523.80.91', '- - - Of a kind used for reproducing\nphenomena other than sound or image', '0%', 'E0'], ['8785', '8523.80.92', '- - - Other, of a kind used for reproducing\nrepresentations of instructions, data,\nsound and image, recorded in a machine\nreadable binary form, and capable of\nbeing manipulated or providing\ninteractivity to a user, by means of an\nautomatic data processing machine;\nproprietary format storage (recorded)\nmedia', '0%', 'E0'], ['8786', '8523.80.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.25', 'Transmission apparatus for radio-\nbroadcasting or television, whether or\nnot incorporating reception apparatus\nor sound recording or reproducing\napparatus; television cameras, digital\ncameras and video camera recorders.', '', ''], ['8787', '8525.50.00', '- Transmission apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8788', '8525.60.00', '- Transmission apparatus incorporating\nreception apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8525.80', '- Television cameras, digital cameras and\nvideo camera recorders :', '', ''], ['8789', '8525.80.10', '- - Web cameras', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Video camera recorders :', '', ''], ['8790', '8525.80.31', '- - - Of a kind used in broadcasting', '5%', 'E7'], ['8791', '8525.80.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E7'], ['8792', '8525.80.40', '- - Television cameras', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other digital cameras :', '', ''], ['8793', '8525.80.51', '- - - Digital single lens reflex (DSLR)', '0%', 'E0'], ['8794', '8525.80.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.26', 'Radar apparatus, radio navigational\naid apparatus and radio remote control\napparatus.', '', ''], ['', '8526.10', '- Radar apparatus :', '', ''], ['8795', '8526.10.10', '- - Radar apparatus, ground based, or of a\nkind for use in civil aircraft, or of a kind\nused solely on sea-going vessels', '0%', 'E0'], ['8796', '8526.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8526.91', '- - Radio navigational aid apparatus :', '', ''], ['8797', '8526.91.10', '- - - Radio navigational aid apparatus, of a\nkind for use in civil aircraft, or of a kind\nused solely on sea-going vessels', '0%', 'E0'], ['8798', '8526.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8799', '8526.92.00', '- - Radio remote control apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.27', 'Reception apparatus for radio-\nbroadcasting, whether or not combined,\nin the same housing, with sound\nrecording or reproducing apparatus or\na clock.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Radio-broadcast receivers capable of\noperating without an external source of\npower :', '', ''], ['8800', '8527.12.00', '- - Pocket-size radio cassette-players', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8527.13', '- - Other apparatus combined with sound\nrecording or reproducing apparatus :', '', ''], ['8801', '8527.13.10', '- - - Portable', '0%', 'E0'], ['8802', '8527.13.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8527.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8803', '8527.19.20', '- - - Portable', '5%', 'EX'], ['8804', '8527.19.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Radio-broadcast receivers not capable of\noperating without an external source of\npower, of a kind used in motor vehicles :', '', ''], ['8805', '8527.21.00', '- - Combined with sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus', '5%', 'EX'], ['8806', '8527.29.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8527.91', '- - Combined with sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus :', '', ''], ['8807', '8527.91.10', '- - - Portable', '5%', 'E15'], ['8808', '8527.91.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8527.92', '- - Not combined with sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus but combined with\na clock :', '', ''], ['8809', '8527.92.20', '- - - Mains operated', '5%', 'EX'], ['8810', '8527.92.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8527.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8811', '8527.99.20', '- - - Mains operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['8812', '8527.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.28', 'Monitors and projectors, not\nincorporating television reception\napparatus; reception apparatus for\ntelevision, whether or not incorporating\nradio-broadcast receivers or sound or\nvideo recording or reproducing', '', ''], ['', '', 'apparatus.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cathode-ray tube monitors :', '', ''], ['8813', '8528.42.00', '- - Capable of directly connecting to and\ndesigned for use with an automatic data\nprocessing machine of heading 84.71', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8528.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8814', '8528.49.10', '- - - Colour', '5%', 'EX'], ['8815', '8528.49.20', '- - - Monochrome', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other monitors :', '', ''], ['8816', '8528.52.00', '- - Capable of directly connecting to and\ndesigned for use with an automatic data\nprocessing machine of heading 84.71', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8528.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8817', '8528.59.10', '- - - Colour', '5%', 'E15'], ['8818', '8528.59.20', '- - - Monochrome', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Projectors :', '', ''], ['8819', '8528.62.00', '- - Capable of directly connecting to and\ndesigned for use with an automatic data\nprocessing machine of heading 84.71', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8528.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8820', '8528.69.10', '- - - Having the capability of projecting\nonto a screen diagonally measuring 300\ninches or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8821', '8528.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Reception apparatus for television,\nwhether or not incorporating radio-\nbroadcast receivers or sound or video\nrecording or reproducing apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '8528.71', '- - Not designed to incorporate a video\ndisplay or screen :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Set top boxes which have a\ncommunications function :', '', ''], ['8822', '8528.71.11', '- - - - Mains operated', '5%', 'E15'], ['8823', '8528.71.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8824', '8528.71.91', '- - - - Mains operated', '5%', 'E15'], ['8825', '8528.71.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '8528.72', '- - Other, colour :', '', ''], ['8826', '8528.72.10', '- - - Battery operated', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8827', '8528.72.91', '- - - - Cathode-ray tube type', '5%', 'E15'], ['8828', '8528.72.92', '- - - - Liquid crystal devices (LCD), light-\nemitting diodes (LED) and other flat\npanel display type', '5%', 'EX'], ['8829', '8528.72.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['8830', '8528.73.00', '- - Other, monochrome', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.29', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the apparatus of', '', ''], ['', '', 'headings 85.25 to 85.28.', '', ''], ['', '8529.10', '- Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds;\nparts suitable for use therewith :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Parabolic aerial reflector dishes for\ndirect broadcast multi-media systems and\nparts thereof :', '', ''], ['8831', '8529.10.21', '- - - For television reception', '0%', 'E0'], ['8832', '8529.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8833', '8529.10.30', '- - Telescopic, rabbit and dipole antennae\nfor television or radio receivers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8834', '8529.10.40', '- - Aerial filters and separators', '0%', 'E0'], ['8835', '8529.10.60', '- - Feed horns (wave guide)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8836', '8529.10.92', '- - - Of a kind used with transmission\napparatus for radio-broadcasting or\ntelevision', '0%', 'E0'], ['8837', '8529.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8529.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8838', '8529.90.20', '- - Of decoders', '0%', 'E0'], ['8839', '8529.90.40', '- - Of digital cameras or video camera\nrecorders', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other printed circuit boards,\nassembled :', '', ''], ['8840', '8529.90.51', '- - - For goods of subheading 8525.50 or\n8525.60', '0%', 'E0'], ['8841', '8529.90.52', '- - - For goods of subheading 8527.13,\n8527.19, 8527.21, 8527.29, 8527.91 or\n8527.99', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For goods of heading 85.28 :', '', ''], ['8842', '8529.90.53', '- - - - For flat panel displays', '0%', 'E0'], ['8843', '8529.90.54', '- - - - Other, for television receivers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8844', '8529.90.55', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8845', '8529.90.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8846', '8529.90.91', '- - - For television receivers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8847', '8529.90.94', '- - - For flat panel displays', '0%', 'E0'], ['8848', '8529.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.30', 'Electrical signalling, safety or traffic\ncontrol equipment for railways,\ntramways, roads, inland waterways,\nparking facilities, port installations or\nairfields (other than those of heading\n86.08).', '', ''], ['8849', '8530.10.00', '- Equipment for railways or tramways', '0%', 'E0'], ['8850', '8530.80.00', '- Other equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8851', '8530.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.31', 'Electric sound or visual signalling\napparatus (for example, bells, sirens,\nindicator panels, burglar or fire\nalarms), other than those of heading\n85.12 or 85.30.', '', ''], ['', '8531.10', '- Burglar or fire alarms and similar\napparatus :', '', ''], ['8852', '8531.10.10', '- - Burglar alarms', '0%', 'E0'], ['8853', '8531.10.20', '- - Fire alarms', '0%', 'E0'], ['8854', '8531.10.30', '- - Smoke alarms; portable personal\nalarms (shrill alarms)', '0%', 'E0'], ['8855', '8531.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8856', '8531.20.00', '- Indicator panels incorporating liquid\ncrystal devices (LCD) or light-emitting\ndiodes (LED)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8531.80', '- Other apparatus :', '', ''], ['8857', '8531.80.10', '- - Electronic bells and other sound\nsignalling apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Flat panel displays (including electro-\nluminescence, plasma and other\ntechnologies) :', '', ''], ['8858', '8531.80.21', '- - - Vacuum fluorescent display panels', '0%', 'E0'], ['8859', '8531.80.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8860', '8531.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8531.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['8861', '8531.90.10', '- - Parts including printed circuit\nassemblies of subheading 8531.20,\n8531.80.21 or 8531.80.29', '0%', 'E0'], ['8862', '8531.90.20', '- - Of door bells or other door sound\nsignalling apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8863', '8531.90.30', '- - Of other bells or sound signaling\napparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['8864', '8531.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.32', 'Electrical capacitors, fixed, variable or\nadjustable (pre-set).', '', ''], ['8865', '8532.10.00', '- Fixed capacitors designed for use in\n50/60 Hz circuits and having a reactive\npower handling capacity of not less than\n0.5 kvar (power capacitors)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other fixed capacitors :', '', ''], ['8866', '8532.21.00', '- - Tantalum', '0%', 'E0'], ['8867', '8532.22.00', '- - Aluminium electrolytic', '0%', 'E0'], ['8868', '8532.23.00', '- - Ceramic dielectric, single layer', '0%', 'E0'], ['8869', '8532.24.00', '- - Ceramic dielectric, multilayer', '0%', 'E0'], ['8870', '8532.25.00', '- - Dielectric of paper or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['8871', '8532.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8872', '8532.30.00', '- Variable or adjustable (pre-set)\ncapacitors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8873', '8532.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.33', 'Electrical resistors (including rheostats\nand potentiometers), other than heating\nresistors.', '', ''], ['', '8533.10', '- Fixed carbon resistors, composition or\nfilm type :', '', ''], ['8874', '8533.10.10', '- - Surface mounted', '0%', 'E0'], ['8875', '8533.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other fixed resistors :', '', ''], ['8876', '8533.21.00', '- - For a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 20 W', '0%', 'E0'], ['8877', '8533.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Wirewound variable resistors, including\nrheostats and potentiometers :', '', ''], ['8878', '8533.31.00', '- - For a power handling capacity not\nexceeding 20 W', '0%', 'E0'], ['8879', '8533.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8880', '8533.40.00', '- Other variable resistors, including\nrheostats and potentiometers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8881', '8533.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.34', 'Printed circuits.', '', ''], ['8882', '8534.00.10', '- Single-sided', '0%', 'E0'], ['8883', '8534.00.20', '- Double-sided', '0%', 'E0'], ['8884', '8534.00.30', '- Multi-layer', '0%', 'E0'], ['8885', '8534.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.35', 'Electrical apparatus for switching or\nprotecting electrical circuits, or for\nmaking connections to or in electrical\ncircuits (for example, switches, fuses,\nlightning arresters, voltage limiters,\nsurge suppressors, plugs and other\nconnectors, junction boxes), for a\nvoltage exceeding 1,000 volts.', '', ''], ['8886', '8535.10.00', '- Fuses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Automatic circuit breakers :', '', ''], ['', '8535.21', '- - For a voltage of less than 72.5 kV :', '', ''], ['8887', '8535.21.10', '- - - Moulded case type', '0%', 'E0'], ['8888', '8535.21.20', '- - - Earth leakage circuit breaker', '0%', 'E0'], ['8889', '8535.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8535.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8890', '8535.29.10', '- - - Earth leakage circuit breaker', '0%', 'E0'], ['8891', '8535.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8535.30', '- Isolating switches and make-and-break\nswitches :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Suitable for a voltage exceeding 1kV\nbut not exceeding 40 kV :', '', ''], ['8892', '8535.30.11', '- - - Disconnectors having a voltage of\nless than 36 kV', '0%', 'E0'], ['8893', '8535.30.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8894', '8535.30.20', '- - For a voltage of 66 kV or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8895', '8535.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8896', '8535.40.00', '- Lightning arresters, voltage limiters and\nsurge suppressors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8535.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['8897', '8535.90.10', '- - Bushing assemblies and tap changer\nassemblies for electricity distribution or\npower transformers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8898', '8535.90.20', '- - Change-over switches of a kind used\nfor starting electric motors', '0%', 'E0'], ['8899', '8535.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.36', 'Electrical apparatus for switching or\nprotecting electrical circuits, or for\nmaking connections to or in electrical\ncircuits (for example, switches, relays,\nfuses, surge suppressors, plugs, sockets,\nlamp-holders and other connectors,\njunction boxes), for a voltage not\nexceeding 1,000 volts; connectors for\noptical fibres, optical fibre bundles or\ncables.', '', ''], ['', '8536.10', '- Fuses :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Thermal fuses; glass type fuses :', '', ''], ['8900', '8536.10.11', '- - - Suitable for use in electric fans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8901', '8536.10.12', '- - - Other, for a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8902', '8536.10.13', '- - - Fuse blocks, of a kind used for motor\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8903', '8536.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8904', '8536.10.91', '- - - Suitable for use in electric fans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8905', '8536.10.92', '- - - Other, for a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8906', '8536.10.93', '- - - Fuse blocks, of a kind used for motor\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8907', '8536.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.20', '- Automatic circuit breakers :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Moulded case type :', '', ''], ['8908', '8536.20.11', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8909', '8536.20.12', '- - - For a current of 16 A or more, but not\nmore than 32 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8910', '8536.20.13', '- - - For a current of more than 32 A, but\nnot more than 1,000 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8911', '8536.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8912', '8536.20.20', '- - Of a kind incorporated into electro-\nthermic domestic appliances of heading\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8913', '8536.20.91', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8914', '8536.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.30', '- Other apparatus for protecting electrical\ncircuits :', '', ''], ['8915', '8536.30.10', '- - Lightning arresters', '0%', 'E0'], ['8916', '8536.30.20', '- - Of a kind used in radio equipment or in\nelectric fans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8917', '8536.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Relays :', '', ''], ['', '8536.41', '- - For a voltage not exceeding 60 V :', '', ''], ['8918', '8536.41.10', '- - - Digital relays', '0%', 'E0'], ['8919', '8536.41.20', '- - - Of a kind used in radio equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8920', '8536.41.30', '- - - Of a kind used in electric fans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8921', '8536.41.40', '- - - Other, for a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8922', '8536.41.91', '- - - - Semiconductor or electro-magnetic\nrelays of voltage not exceeding 28 V', '0%', 'E0'], ['8923', '8536.41.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8924', '8536.49.10', '- - - Digital relays', '0%', 'E0'], ['8925', '8536.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.50', '- Other switches :', '', ''], ['8926', '8536.50.20', '- - Over-current and residual-current\nautomatic switches', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - High inrush switches and commutators\nfor stoves and ranges; microphone\nswitches; power switches for television or\nradio receivers; switches for electric fans;\nrotary, slide, see-saw and magnetic\nswitches for air-conditioning machines :', '', ''], ['8927', '8536.50.32', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in electric\nfans or in radio equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8928', '8536.50.33', '- - - Other, of a rated current carrying\ncapacity of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8929', '8536.50.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8930', '8536.50.40', '- - Miniature switches suitable for use in\nrice cookers or toaster ovens', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Electronic AC switches consisting of\noptically coupled input and output circuits\n(insulated thyristor AC switches);\nelectronic switches, including temperature\nprotected electronic switches, consisting\nof a transistor and a logic chip (chip-on-\nchip technology) for a voltage not\nexceeding 1,000 volts; electro-mechanical\nsnap-action switches for a current not\nexceeding 11 A :', '', ''], ['8931', '8536.50.51', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8932', '8536.50.59', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other, make and break switches of a\nkind used in domestic electrical wiring\nnot exceeding 500 V and having a rated\ncurrent carrying capacity not exceeding\n20 A :', '', ''], ['8933', '8536.50.61', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8934', '8536.50.69', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8935', '8536.50.92', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in electric\nfans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8936', '8536.50.95', '- - - Other, change-over switches of a kind\nused for starting electric motors; fuse\nswitches', '0%', 'E0'], ['8937', '8536.50.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Lamp-holders, plugs and sockets :', '', ''], ['', '8536.61', '- - Lamp-holders :', '', ''], ['8938', '8536.61.10', '- - - Of a kind used for compact lamps or\nhalogen lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8939', '8536.61.91', '- - - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8940', '8536.61.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Telephone plugs :', '', ''], ['8941', '8536.69.11', '- - - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8942', '8536.69.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Audio / video sockets and cathode ray\ntube sockets for television or radio\nreceivers :', '', ''], ['8943', '8536.69.23', '- - - - For a current not exceeding 1.5 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8944', '8536.69.24', '- - - - For a current exceeding 1.5 A but\nless than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8945', '8536.69.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Sockets and plugs for co-axial cables\nand printed circuits :', '', ''], ['8946', '8536.69.32', '- - - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8947', '8536.69.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8948', '8536.69.92', '- - - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8949', '8536.69.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.70', '- Connectors for optical fibres, optical\nfibres bundles or cables :', '', ''], ['8950', '8536.70.10', '- - Of ceramics', '0%', 'E0'], ['8951', '8536.70.20', '- - Of copper', '0%', 'E0'], ['8952', '8536.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8536.90', '- Other apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Connection and contact elements for\nwires and cables; wafer probers :', '', ''], ['8953', '8536.90.12', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8954', '8536.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Junction boxes :', '', ''], ['8955', '8536.90.22', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8956', '8536.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Cable connectors consisting of a jack\nplug, terminal with or without pin,\nconnector and adaptor for co-axial cable;\ncommutators :', '', ''], ['8957', '8536.90.32', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A', '0%', 'E0'], ['8958', '8536.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For a current of less than 16 A :', '', ''], ['8959', '8536.90.93', '- - - - Telephone patch panels', '0%', 'E0'], ['8960', '8536.90.94', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8961', '8536.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.37', 'Boards, panels, consoles, desks,\ncabinets and other bases, equipped with\ntwo or more apparatus of heading 85.35\nor 85.36, for electric control or the\ndistribution of electricity, including\nthose incorporating instruments or\napparatus of Chapter 90, and\nnumerical control apparatus, other\nthan switching apparatus of heading', '', ''], ['', '', '85.17.', '', ''], ['', '8537.10', '- For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Switchboards and control panels :', '', ''], ['8962', '8537.10.11', '- - - Control panels of a kind suitable for\nuse in distributed control systems', '0%', 'E0'], ['8963', '8537.10.12', '- - - Control panels fitted with a\nprogrammable processor', '0%', 'E0'], ['8964', '8537.10.13', '- - - Other control panels of a kind\nsuitable for goods of heading 84.15,\n84.18, 84.50, 85.08, 85.09 or 85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['8965', '8537.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8966', '8537.10.20', '- - Distribution boards (including back\npanels and back planes) for use solely or\nprincipally with goods of heading 84.71,\n85.17 or 85.25', '0%', 'E0'], ['8967', '8537.10.30', '- - Programmable logic controllers for\nautomated machines for transport,\nhandling and storage of dies for\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['8968', '8537.10.91', '- - - Of a kind used in radio equipment or\nin electric fans', '0%', 'E0'], ['8969', '8537.10.92', '- - - Of a kind suitable for use in\ndistributed control systems', '0%', 'E0'], ['8970', '8537.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8537.20', '- For a voltage exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Switchboards :', '', ''], ['8971', '8537.20.11', '- - - Incorporating electrical instruments\nfor breaking, connecting or protecting\nelectrical circuits for a voltage of 66 kV\nor more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8972', '8537.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Control panels :', '', ''], ['8973', '8537.20.21', '- - - Incorporating electrical instruments\nfor breaking, connecting or protecting\nelectrical circuits for a voltage of 66 kV\nor more', '0%', 'E0'], ['8974', '8537.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8975', '8537.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.38', 'Parts suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the apparatus of\nheading 85.35, 85.36 or 85.37.', '', ''], ['', '8538.10', '- Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets\nand other bases for the goods of heading\n85.37, not equipped with their apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['8976', '8538.10.11', '- - - Parts of programmable logic\ncontrollers for automated machines for\ntransport, handling and storage of dies for\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8977', '8538.10.12', '- - - Of a kind used in radio equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8978', '8538.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For a voltage exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['8979', '8538.10.21', '- - - Parts of programmable logic\ncontrollers for automated machines for\ntransport, handling and storage of dies for\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['8980', '8538.10.22', '- - - Of a kind used in radio equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8981', '8538.10.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8538.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['8982', '8538.90.11', '- - - Parts including printed circuit\nassemblies for telephone plugs;\nconnection and contact elements for wires\nand cables; wafer probers', '0%', 'E0'], ['8983', '8538.90.12', '- - - Parts of goods of subheading\n8536.50.51, 8536.50.59, 8536.69.32,\n8536.69.39, 8536.90.12 or 8536.90.19', '0%', 'E0'], ['8984', '8538.90.13', '- - - Parts of goods of subheading\n8537.10.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['8985', '8538.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['8986', '8538.90.20', '- - For a voltage exceeding 1,000 V', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.39', 'Electric filament or discharge lamps,\nincluding sealed beam lamp units and\nultra-violet or infra-red lamps; arc-\nlamps; light-emitting diode (LED)\nlamps.', '', ''], ['', '8539.10', '- Sealed beam lamp units :', '', ''], ['8987', '8539.10.10', '- - For motor vehicles of Chapter 87', '0%', 'E0'], ['8988', '8539.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other filament lamps, excluding ultra-\nviolet or infra-red lamps :', '', ''], ['', '8539.21', '- - Tungsten halogen :', '', ''], ['8989', '8539.21.20', '- - - Of a kind used in medical equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['8990', '8539.21.30', '- - - Of a kind used for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['8991', '8539.21.40', '- - - Other reflector lamp bulbs', '0%', 'E0'], ['8992', '8539.21.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8539.22', '- - Other, of a power not exceeding 200 W\nand for a voltage exceeding 100 V :', '', ''], ['8993', '8539.22.20', '- - - Of a kind used in medical equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other reflector lamp bulbs :', '', ''], ['8994', '8539.22.31', '- - - - Of a kind used in decorative\nillumination, of a power not exceeding 60\nW', '0%', 'E0'], ['8995', '8539.22.32', '- - - - Of a kind used in decorative\nillumination, of a power exceeding 60 W', '0%', 'E0'], ['8996', '8539.22.33', '- - - - Other, for domestic lighting', '0%', 'E0'], ['8997', '8539.22.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['8998', '8539.22.91', '- - - - Of a kind used in decorative\nillumination, of a power not exceeding 60\nW', '0%', 'E0'], ['8999', '8539.22.92', '- - - - Of a kind used in decorative\nillumination, of a power exceeding 60 W', '0%', 'E0'], ['9000', '8539.22.93', '- - - - Other, for domestic lighting', '0%', 'E0'], ['9001', '8539.22.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8539.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used in medical\nequipment :', '', ''], ['9002', '8539.29.11', '- - - - Operation theatre lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9003', '8539.29.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9004', '8539.29.20', '- - - Of a kind used for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['9005', '8539.29.30', '- - - Other reflector lamp bulbs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Flashlight bulbs; miniature indicator\nbulbs, rated up to 2.25 V :', '', ''], ['9006', '8539.29.41', '- - - - Of a kind suitable for medical\nequipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['9007', '8539.29.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9008', '8539.29.50', '- - - Other, having a capacity exceeding\n200 W but not exceeding 300 W and a\nvoltage exceeding 100 V', '0%', 'E0'], ['9009', '8539.29.60', '- - - Other, having a capacity not\nexceeding 200 W and a voltage not\nexceeding 100 V', '0%', 'E0'], ['9010', '8539.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Discharge lamps, other than ultra-violet\nlamps :', '', ''], ['', '8539.31', '- - Fluorescent, hot cathode :', '', ''], ['9011', '8539.31.10', '- - - Tubes for compact fluorescent lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9012', '8539.31.20', '- - - Other, straight tubes for other\nfluorescent lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9013', '8539.31.30', '- - - Compact fluorescent lamps with\nbuilt-in ballast', '0%', 'E0'], ['9014', '8539.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9015', '8539.32.00', '- - Mercury or sodium vapour lamps;\nmetal halide lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8539.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9016', '8539.39.10', '- - - Tubes for compact fluorescent lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9017', '8539.39.30', '- - - Other fluorescent cold cathode types', '0%', 'E0'], ['9018', '8539.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ultra-violet or infra-red lamps; arc-\nlamps :', '', ''], ['9019', '8539.41.00', '- - Arc-lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9020', '8539.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9021', '8539.50.00', '- Light-emitting diode (LED) lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8539.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['9022', '8539.90.10', '- - Aluminium end caps for fluorescent\nlamps; aluminium screw caps for\nincandescent lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['9023', '8539.90.20', '- - Other, suitable for lamps of motor', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'vehicles', '', ''], ['9024', '8539.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.40', 'Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-\ncathode valves and tubes (for example,\nvacuum or vapour or gas filled valves\nand tubes, mercury arc rectifying\nvalves and tubes, cathode-ray tubes,\ntelevision camera tubes).', '', ''], ['', '', '- Cathode-ray television picture tubes,\nincluding video monitor cathode-ray\ntubes :', '', ''], ['9025', '8540.11.00', '- - Colour', '0%', 'E0'], ['9026', '8540.12.00', '- - Monochrome', '0%', 'E0'], ['9027', '8540.20.00', '- Television camera tubes; image\nconverters and intensifiers; other photo-\ncathode tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8540.40', '- Data/graphic display tubes,\nmonochrome; data/graphic display tubes,\ncolour, with a phosphor dot screen pitch\nsmaller than 0.4 mm :', '', ''], ['9028', '8540.40.10', '- - Data/graphic display tubes, colour, of a\nkind used for articles of heading 85.25', '0%', 'E0'], ['9029', '8540.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9030', '8540.60.00', '- Other cathode-ray tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Microwave tubes (for example,\nmagnetrons, klystrons, travelling wave\ntubes, carcinotrons), excluding grid-\ncontrolled tubes :', '', ''], ['9031', '8540.71.00', '- - Magnetrons', '0%', 'E0'], ['9032', '8540.79.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other valves and tubes :', '', ''], ['9033', '8540.81.00', '- - Receiver or amplifier valves and tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9034', '8540.89.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['9035', '8540.91.00', '- - Of cathode-ray tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8540.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9036', '8540.99.10', '- - - Of microwave tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9037', '8540.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.41', 'Diodes, transistors and similar\nsemiconductor devices; photosensitive\nsemiconductor devices, including\nphotovoltaic cells whether or not\nassembled in modules or made up into\npanels; light-emitting diodes (LED);\nmounted piezo-electric crystals.', '', ''], ['9038', '8541.10.00', '- Diodes, other than photosensitive or\nlight-emitting diodes (LED)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Transistors, other than photosensitive\ntransistors :', '', ''], ['9039', '8541.21.00', '- - With a dissipation rate of less than 1 W', '0%', 'E0'], ['9040', '8541.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9041', '8541.30.00', '- Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than\nphotosensitive devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8541.40', '- Photosensitive semiconductor devices,\nincluding photovoltaic cells whether or\nnot assembled in modules or made up into\npanels; light-emitting diodes (LED) :', '', ''], ['9042', '8541.40.10', '- - Light-emitting diodes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Photocells, including photodiodes and\nphototransistors :', '', ''], ['9043', '8541.40.21', '- - - Photovoltaic cells, not assembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['9044', '8541.40.22', '- - - Photovoltaic cells assembled in\nmodules or made up into panels', '0%', 'E0'], ['9045', '8541.40.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9046', '8541.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9047', '8541.50.00', '- Other semiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['9048', '8541.60.00', '- Mounted piezo-electric crystals', '0%', 'E0'], ['9049', '8541.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.42', 'Electronic integrated circuits.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Electronic integrated circuits :', '', ''], ['9050', '8542.31.00', '- - Processors and controllers, whether or\nnot combined with memories, converters,\nlogic circuits, amplifiers, clock and timing\ncircuits, or other circuits', '0%', 'E0'], ['9051', '8542.32.00', '- - Memories', '0%', 'E0'], ['9052', '8542.33.00', '- - Amplifiers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9053', '8542.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9054', '8542.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.43', 'Electrical machines and apparatus,\nhaving individual functions, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['9055', '8543.10.00', '- Particle accelerators', '0%', 'E0'], ['9056', '8543.20.00', '- Signal generators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8543.30', '- Machines and apparatus for\nelectroplating, electrolysis or\nelectrophoresis :', '', ''], ['9057', '8543.30.20', '- - Wet processing equipment for the\napplication by immersion of chemical or\nelectrochemical solutions, whether or not\nfor the purpose of removing material on\nprinted circuit board/printed wiring board\nsubstrates', '0%', 'E0'], ['9058', '8543.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8543.70', '- Other machines and apparatus :', '', ''], ['9059', '8543.70.10', '- - Electric fence energisers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9060', '8543.70.20', '- - Remote control apparatus, other than\nradio remote control apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['9061', '8543.70.30', '- - Electrical machines and apparatus with\ntranslation or dictionary functions', '0%', 'E0'], ['9062', '8543.70.40', '- - Equipment for the removal of dust\nparticles or the elimination of electrostatic\ncharge during the manufacture of printed\ncircuit boards/printed wiring boards or\nprinted circuit assemblies; machines for\ncuring material by ultra-violet light for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['9063', '8543.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8543.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['9064', '8543.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 8543.10 or\n8543.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['9065', '8543.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 8543.30.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['9066', '8543.90.30', '- - Of goods of subheading 8543.70.30', '0%', 'E0'], ['9067', '8543.90.40', '- - Of goods of subheading 8543.70.40', '0%', 'E0'], ['9068', '8543.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.44', 'Insulated (including enamelled or\nanodised) wire, cable (including co-\naxial cable) and other insulated electric\nconductors, whether or not fitted with\nconnectors; optical fibre cables, made\nup of individually sheathed fibres,\nwhether or not assembled with electric\nconductors or fitted with connectors.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Winding wire :', '', ''], ['', '8544.11', '- - Of copper :', '', ''], ['9069', '8544.11.20', '- - - With an outer coating or covering of\npaper, textiles or poly(vinyl chloride)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9070', '8544.11.30', '- - - With an outer coating of lacquer', '0%', 'E0'], ['9071', '8544.11.40', '- - - With an outer coating of enamel', '0%', 'E0'], ['9072', '8544.11.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9073', '8544.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8544.20', '- Co-axial cable and other co-axial\nelectric conductors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Insulated cables fitted with connectors,\nfor a voltage not exceeding 66 kV :', '', ''], ['9074', '8544.20.11', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9075', '8544.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Insulated cables not fitted with\nconnectors, for a voltage not exceeding 66\nkV :', '', ''], ['9076', '8544.20.21', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9077', '8544.20.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Insulated cables fitted with connectors,\nfor a voltage exceeding 66 kV :', '', ''], ['9078', '8544.20.31', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9079', '8544.20.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Insulated cables not fitted with\nconnectors, for a voltage exceeding 66\nkV :', '', ''], ['9080', '8544.20.41', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9081', '8544.20.49', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8544.30', '- Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets\nof a kind used in vehicles, aircraft or\nships :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Wiring harnesses for motor vehicles :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics :', '', ''], ['9082', '8544.30.12', '- - - - Of a kind used for vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['9083', '8544.30.13', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9084', '8544.30.14', '- - - - Of a kind used for vehicles of\nheading 87.02, 87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['9085', '8544.30.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9086', '8544.30.91', '- - - Insulated with rubber or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9087', '8544.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage\nnot exceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['', '8544.42', '- - Fitted with connectors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage not\nexceeding 80 V :', '', ''], ['9088', '8544.42.11', '- - - - Submarine telephone cables;\nsubmarine telegraph cables; submarine\nradio relay cables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9089', '8544.42.13', '- - - - Other, insulated with rubber,\nplastics or paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9090', '8544.42.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage\nexceeding 80 V but not exceeding 1,000\nV :', '', ''], ['9091', '8544.42.21', '- - - - Submarine telephone cables;\nsubmarine telegraph cables; submarine\nradio relay cables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9092', '8544.42.23', '- - - - Other, insulated with rubber,\nplastics or paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9093', '8544.42.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Battery cables :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Insulated with rubber or plastics :', '', ''], ['9094', '8544.42.32', '- - - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['9095', '8544.42.33', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9096', '8544.42.34', '- - - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02,\n87.03, 87.04 or 87.11', '0%', 'E0'], ['9097', '8544.42.39', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9098', '8544.42.94', '- - - - Electric cables insulated with\nplastics, having a core diameter not\nexceeding 5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9099', '8544.42.95', '- - - - Electric cables insulated with\nplastics, having a core diameter exceeding\n5 mm but not exceeding 19.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9100', '8544.42.96', '- - - - Other electric cables insulated with\nplastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9101', '8544.42.97', '- - - - Electric cables insulated with rubber\nor paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9102', '8544.42.98', '- - - - Flat data cables having two lines or\nmore', '0%', 'E0'], ['9103', '8544.42.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8544.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage not\nexceeding 80 V :', '', ''], ['9104', '8544.49.11', '- - - - Submarine telephone cables;\nsubmarine telegraph cables; submarine\nradio relay cables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9105', '8544.49.13', '- - - - Other, insulated with rubber,\nplastics or paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9106', '8544.49.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind not used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage not\nexceeding 80 V :', '', ''], ['9107', '8544.49.21', '- - - - Shielded wire of a kind used in the\nmanufacture of automotive wiring\nharnesses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9108', '8544.49.22', '- - - - - Electric cables insulated with\nplastics having a core diameter not\nexceeding 19.5 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9109', '8544.49.23', '- - - - - Other electric cables insulated\nwith plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9110', '8544.49.24', '- - - - - Other, insulated with rubber,\nplastics or paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9111', '8544.49.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage\nexceeding 80 V but not exceeding 1,000\nV :', '', ''], ['9112', '8544.49.31', '- - - - Submarine telephone cables;\nsubmarine telegraph cables; submarine\nradio relay cables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9113', '8544.49.32', '- - - - Other, insulated with plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9114', '8544.49.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Of a kind not used for\ntelecommunications, for a voltage\nexceeding 80 V but not exceeding 1,000\nV :', '', ''], ['9115', '8544.49.41', '- - - - Cables insulated with plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9116', '8544.49.42', '- - - - Other, insulated with rubber,\nplastics or paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9117', '8544.49.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8544.60', '- Other electric conductors, for a voltage\nexceeding 1,000 V :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For a voltage exceeding 1 kV but not\nexceeding 36 kV :', '', ''], ['9118', '8544.60.11', '- - - Cables insulated with plastics having\na core diameter of less than 22.7 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9119', '8544.60.12', '- - - Other, insulated with rubber, plastics\nor paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9120', '8544.60.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For a voltage exceeding 36 kV but not\nexceeding 66 kV :', '', ''], ['9121', '8544.60.21', '- - - Cables insulated with plastics having\na core diameter of less than 22.7 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9122', '8544.60.22', '- - - Other, insulated with rubber, plastics\nor paper', '0%', 'E0'], ['9123', '8544.60.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For a voltage exceeding 66 kV :', '', ''], ['9124', '8544.60.31', '- - - Insulated with rubber, plastics or\npaper', '8%', 'E5'], ['9125', '8544.60.39', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E5'], ['', '8544.70', '- Optical fibre cables :', '', ''], ['9126', '8544.70.10', '- - Submarine telephone cables;\nsubmarine telegraph cables; submarine\nradio relay cables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9127', '8544.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.45', 'Carbon electrodes, carbon brushes,\nlamp carbons, battery carbons and\nother articles of graphite or other\ncarbon, with or without metal, of a\nkind used for electrical purposes.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Electrodes :', '', ''], ['9128', '8545.11.00', '- - Of a kind used for furnaces', '0%', 'E0'], ['9129', '8545.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9130', '8545.20.00', '- Brushes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9131', '8545.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.46', 'Electrical insulators of any material.', '', ''], ['9132', '8546.10.00', '- Of glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8546.20', '- Of ceramics :', '', ''], ['9133', '8546.20.10', '- - Transformer bushings and circuit\nbreaker insulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['9134', '8546.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9135', '8546.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.47', 'Insulating fittings for electrical\nmachines, appliances or equipment,\nbeing fittings wholly of insulating\nmaterial apart from any minor\ncomponents of metal (for example,\nthreaded sockets) incorporated during\nmoulding solely for purposes of\nassembly, other than insulators of\nheading 85.46; electrical conduit tubing\nand joints therefor, of base metal lined', '', ''], ['', '', 'with insulating material.', '', ''], ['9136', '8547.10.00', '- Insulating fittings of ceramics', '0%', 'E0'], ['9137', '8547.20.00', '- Insulating fittings of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8547.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9138', '8547.90.10', '- - Electric conduit tubing and joints\ntherefor, of base metal lined with\ninsulating material', '0%', 'E0'], ['9139', '8547.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '85.48', 'Waste and scrap of primary cells,\nprimary batteries and electric\naccumulators; spent primary cells,\nspent primary batteries and spent\nelectric accumulators; electrical parts\nof machinery or apparatus, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '8548.10', '- Waste and scrap of primary cells,\nprimary batteries and electric\naccumulators; spent primary cells, spent\nprimary batteries and spent electric\naccumulators :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Lead acid scrap storage batteries,\ndrained or undrained :', '', ''], ['9140', '8548.10.13', '- - - 6 volts and 12 volts electric\naccumulators of a height (excluding\nterminals and handles) not more than 23\ncm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9141', '8548.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9142', '8548.10.20', '- - Waste and scrap containing mainly iron', '0%', 'E0'], ['9143', '8548.10.30', '- - Waste and scrap containing mainly\ncopper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9144', '8548.10.91', '- - - Of primary cells and primary\nbatteries', '0%', 'E0'], ['9145', '8548.10.92', '- - - Of electric accumulators of a kind\nused in aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['9146', '8548.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8548.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9147', '8548.90.10', '- - Image sensors of the contact type\ncomprising a photo-conductive sensor\nelement, an electric charge storage\ncondenser, a light source of light emitting\ndiodes, thin-film transistor matrix and a\nscanning condenser, capable of scanning\ntext', '0%', 'E0'], ['9148', '8548.90.20', '- - Printed circuit assemblies including\nsuch assemblies for external connections', '0%', 'E0'], ['9149', '8548.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.01', 'Rail locomotives powered from an\nexternal source of electricity or by\nelectric accumulators.', '', ''], ['9150', '8601.10.00', '- Powered from an external source of\nelectricity', '0%', 'E0'], ['9151', '8601.20.00', '- Powered by electric accumulators', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.02', 'Other rail locomotives; locomotive\ntenders.', '', ''], ['9152', '8602.10.00', '- Diesel-electric locomotives', '0%', 'E0'], ['9153', '8602.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.03', 'Self-propelled railway or tramway\ncoaches, vans and trucks, other than\nthose of heading 86.04.', '', ''], ['9154', '8603.10.00', '- Powered from an external source of\nelectricity', '0%', 'E0'], ['9155', '8603.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9156', '8604.00.00', 'Railway or tramway maintenance or\nservice vehicles, whether or not self-\npropelled (for example, workshops,\ncranes, ballast tampers, trackliners,\ntesting coaches and track inspection\nvehicles).', '0%', 'E0'], ['9157', '8605.00.00', 'Railway or tramway passenger coaches,\nnot self-propelled; luggage vans, post\noffice coaches and other special\npurpose railway or tramway coaches,\nnot self-propelled (excluding those of\nheading 86.04).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.06', 'Railway or tramway goods vans and\nwagons, not self-propelled.', '', ''], ['9158', '8606.10.00', '- Tank wagons and the like', '0%', 'E0'], ['9159', '8606.30.00', '- Self-discharging vans and wagons, other\nthan those of subheading 8606.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9160', '8606.91.00', '- - Covered and closed', '0%', 'E0'], ['9161', '8606.92.00', '- - Open, with non-removable sides of a\nheight exceeding 60 cm', '0%', 'E0'], ['9162', '8606.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.07', 'Parts of railway or tramway\nlocomotives or rolling-stock.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Bogies, bissel-bogies, axles and wheels,\nand parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9163', '8607.11.00', '- - Driving bogies and bissel-bogies', '0%', 'E0'], ['9164', '8607.12.00', '- - Other bogies and bissel-bogies', '0%', 'E0'], ['9165', '8607.19.00', '- - Other, including parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Brakes and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9166', '8607.21.00', '- - Air brakes and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['9167', '8607.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9168', '8607.30.00', '- Hooks and other coupling devices,\nbuffers, and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9169', '8607.91.00', '- - Of locomotives', '0%', 'E0'], ['9170', '8607.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.08', 'Railway or tramway track fixtures and\nfittings; mechanical (including electro-\nmechanical) signalling, safety or traffic\ncontrol equipment for railways,\ntramways, roads, inland waterways,\nparking facilities, port installations or\nairfields; parts of the foregoing.', '', ''], ['9171', '8608.00.20', '- Electro-mechanical equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['9172', '8608.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '86.09', 'Containers (including containers for\nthe transport of fluids) specially\ndesigned and equipped for carriage by\none or more modes of transport.', '', ''], ['9173', '8609.00.10', '- Of base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['9174', '8609.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.01', 'Tractors (other than tractors of\nheading 87.09).', '', ''], ['', '8701.10', '- Single axle tractors :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a power not exceeding 22.5 kW,\nwhether or not electrically operated :', '', ''], ['9175', '8701.10.11', '- - - For agricultural use', '10%', 'EX'], ['9176', '8701.10.19', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9177', '8701.10.91', '- - - For agricultural use', '10%', 'EX'], ['9178', '8701.10.99', '- - - Other', '6%', 'EX'], ['', '8701.20', '- Road tractors for semi-trailers :', '', ''], ['9179', '8701.20.10', '- - Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9180', '8701.20.91', '- - - New', '0%', 'E0'], ['9181', '8701.20.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9182', '8701.30.00', '- Track-laying tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, of an engine power :', '', ''], ['', '8701.91', '- - Not exceeding 18 kW :', '', ''], ['9183', '8701.91.10', '- - - Agricultural tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['9184', '8701.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8701.92', '- - Exceeding 18 kW but not exceeding 37\nkW :', '', ''], ['9185', '8701.92.10', '- - - Agricultural tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['9186', '8701.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8701.93', '- - Exceeding 37 kW but not exceeding 75\nkW :', '', ''], ['9187', '8701.93.10', '- - - Agricultural tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['9188', '8701.93.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8701.94', '- - Exceeding 75 kW but not exceeding\n130 kW :', '', ''], ['9189', '8701.94.10', '- - - Agricultural tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['9190', '8701.94.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8701.95', '- - Exceeding 130 kW :', '', ''], ['9191', '8701.95.10', '- - - Agricultural tractors', '0%', 'E0'], ['9192', '8701.95.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.02', 'Motor vehicles for the transport of ten\nor more persons, including the driver.', '', ''], ['', '8702.10', '- With only compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9193', '8702.10.10', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor coaches, buses or minibuses :', '', ''], ['9194', '8702.10.41', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9195', '8702.10.42', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9196', '8702.10.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9197', '8702.10.50', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9198', '8702.10.60', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more and specially designed for use in\nairports :', '', ''], ['9199', '8702.10.71', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9200', '8702.10.72', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9201', '8702.10.79', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9202', '8702.10.81', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9203', '8702.10.82', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9204', '8702.10.89', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9205', '8702.10.91', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9206', '8702.10.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8702.20', '- With both compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel) and electric motor as motors for\npropulsion :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9207', '8702.20.10', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more :', '', ''], ['9208', '8702.20.21', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9209', '8702.20.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9210', '8702.20.31', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9211', '8702.20.32', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9212', '8702.20.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9213', '8702.20.41', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9214', '8702.20.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9215', '8702.20.50', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more and specially designed for use in\nairports :', '', ''], ['9216', '8702.20.61', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9217', '8702.20.62', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9218', '8702.20.69', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9219', '8702.20.71', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. of at least 6 t but not\nexceeding 18 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9220', '8702.20.72', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9221', '8702.20.79', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9222', '8702.20.91', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9223', '8702.20.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8702.30', '- With both spark-ignition internal\ncombustion reciprocating piston engine\nand electric motor as motors for\npropulsion :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9224', '8702.30.10', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more :', '', ''], ['9225', '8702.30.21', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9226', '8702.30.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9227', '8702.30.31', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9228', '8702.30.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9229', '8702.30.41', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9230', '8702.30.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9231', '8702.30.50', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more and specially designed for use in', '', ''], ['', '', 'airports :', '', ''], ['9232', '8702.30.61', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9233', '8702.30.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9234', '8702.30.71', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9235', '8702.30.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9236', '8702.30.91', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9237', '8702.30.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8702.40', '- With only electric motor for propulsion :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9238', '8702.40.10', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more :', '', ''], ['9239', '8702.40.21', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9240', '8702.40.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9241', '8702.40.31', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9242', '8702.40.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9243', '8702.40.41', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9244', '8702.40.49', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9245', '8702.40.50', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more and specially designed for use in\nairports :', '', ''], ['9246', '8702.40.61', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9247', '8702.40.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9248', '8702.40.71', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9249', '8702.40.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9250', '8702.40.91', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9251', '8702.40.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8702.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9252', '8702.90.10', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor coaches, buses or minibuses,\nfor the transport of 30 persons or more :', '', ''], ['9253', '8702.90.21', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9254', '8702.90.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9255', '8702.90.31', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9256', '8702.90.32', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9257', '8702.90.33', '- - - Other, of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9258', '8702.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9259', '8702.90.40', '- - - Motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor coaches, buses or minibuses,\nfor the transport of 30 persons or more\nand specially designed for use in airports :', '', ''], ['9260', '8702.90.51', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9261', '8702.90.59', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses, for the transport of 30 persons\nor more :', '', ''], ['9262', '8702.90.61', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9263', '8702.90.69', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor coaches, buses or\nminibuses :', '', ''], ['9264', '8702.90.71', '- - - - Of a g.v.w. not exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9265', '8702.90.79', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9266', '8702.90.80', '- - - Other, of a g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9267', '8702.90.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.03', 'Motor cars and other motor vehicles\nprincipally designed for the transport\nof persons (other than those of heading\n87.02), including station wagons and\nracing cars.', '', ''], ['', '8703.10', '- Vehicles specially designed for\ntravelling on snow; golf cars and similar\nvehicles :', '', ''], ['9268', '8703.10.10', '- - Golf cars (including golf buggies) and\nsimilar vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['9269', '8703.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other vehicles, with only spark-ignition\ninternal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine :', '', ''], ['', '8703.21', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n1,000 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9270', '8703.21.11', '- - - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9271', '8703.21.12', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9272', '8703.21.13', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9273', '8703.21.14', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9274', '8703.21.15', '- - - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9275', '8703.21.21', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9276', '8703.21.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9277', '8703.21.30', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9278', '8703.21.41', '- - - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9279', '8703.21.42', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9280', '8703.21.43', '- - - - Ambulances', '5%', 'EX'], ['9281', '8703.21.44', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'EX'], ['9282', '8703.21.45', '- - - - Sedan', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9283', '8703.21.51', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '5%', 'EX'], ['9284', '8703.21.59', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['9285', '8703.21.90', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.22', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000\ncc but not exceeding 1,500 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9286', '8703.22.11', '- - - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9287', '8703.22.12', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9288', '8703.22.13', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9289', '8703.22.14', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9290', '8703.22.15', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9291', '8703.22.16', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9292', '8703.22.17', '- - - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9293', '8703.22.21', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9294', '8703.22.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9295', '8703.22.30', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9296', '8703.22.41', '- - - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['9297', '8703.22.42', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9298', '8703.22.43', '- - - - Ambulances', '5%', 'EX'], ['9299', '8703.22.44', '- - - - Hearses', '5%', 'EX'], ['9300', '8703.22.45', '- - - - Prison vans', '5%', 'EX'], ['9301', '8703.22.46', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['9302', '8703.22.47', '- - - - Sedan', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9303', '8703.22.51', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '5%', 'EX'], ['9304', '8703.22.59', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['9305', '8703.22.90', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.23', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500\ncc but not exceeding 3,000 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9306', '8703.23.11', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9307', '8703.23.12', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9308', '8703.23.13', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9309', '8703.23.14', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9310', '8703.23.21', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9311', '8703.23.22', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9312', '8703.23.23', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9313', '8703.23.24', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9314', '8703.23.31', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9315', '8703.23.32', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9316', '8703.23.33', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9317', '8703.23.34', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9318', '8703.23.35', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9319', '8703.23.36', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9320', '8703.23.41', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9321', '8703.23.42', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9322', '8703.23.51', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9323', '8703.23.52', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9324', '8703.23.53', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9325', '8703.23.54', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9326', '8703.23.55', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9327', '8703.23.56', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9328', '8703.23.57', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9329', '8703.23.58', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9330', '8703.23.61', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9331', '8703.23.62', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9332', '8703.23.63', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9333', '8703.23.64', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9334', '8703.23.65', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9335', '8703.23.66', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9336', '8703.23.67', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9337', '8703.23.68', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9338', '8703.23.71', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9339', '8703.23.72', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9340', '8703.23.73', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9341', '8703.23.74', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.24', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9342', '8703.24.11', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9343', '8703.24.12', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9344', '8703.24.13', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9345', '8703.24.14', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9346', '8703.24.15', '- - - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9347', '8703.24.21', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9348', '8703.24.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9349', '8703.24.30', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9350', '8703.24.41', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9351', '8703.24.42', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9352', '8703.24.43', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9353', '8703.24.44', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9354', '8703.24.45', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9355', '8703.24.49', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9356', '8703.24.51', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9357', '8703.24.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9358', '8703.24.61', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9359', '8703.24.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other vehicles, with only compression-\nignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel) :', '', ''], ['', '8703.31', '- - Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding\n1,500 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9360', '8703.31.11', '- - - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9361', '8703.31.12', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9362', '8703.31.13', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9363', '8703.31.14', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9364', '8703.31.15', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9365', '8703.31.16', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9366', '8703.31.17', '- - - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9367', '8703.31.21', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9368', '8703.31.29', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9369', '8703.31.30', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9370', '8703.31.41', '- - - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['9371', '8703.31.42', '- - - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9372', '8703.31.43', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9373', '8703.31.44', '- - - - Hearses', '5%', 'EX'], ['9374', '8703.31.45', '- - - - Prison vans', '5%', 'EX'], ['9375', '8703.31.46', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9376', '8703.31.47', '- - - - Sedan', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans) :', '', ''], ['9377', '8703.31.51', '- - - - - Of four-wheel drive', '5%', 'EX'], ['9378', '8703.31.59', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['9379', '8703.31.90', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.32', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500\ncc but not exceeding 2,500 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9380', '8703.32.11', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9381', '8703.32.12', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9382', '8703.32.13', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9383', '8703.32.14', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9384', '8703.32.21', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9385', '8703.32.22', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9386', '8703.32.23', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9387', '8703.32.31', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9388', '8703.32.32', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9389', '8703.32.33', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9390', '8703.32.34', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9391', '8703.32.35', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9392', '8703.32.36', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9393', '8703.32.41', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9394', '8703.32.42', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9395', '8703.32.43', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9396', '8703.32.51', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9397', '8703.32.52', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9398', '8703.32.53', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9399', '8703.32.54', '- - - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9400', '8703.32.61', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9401', '8703.32.62', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9402', '8703.32.63', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9403', '8703.32.71', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9404', '8703.32.72', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9405', '8703.32.73', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9406', '8703.32.74', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9407', '8703.32.75', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9408', '8703.32.76', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9409', '8703.32.81', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9410', '8703.32.82', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9411', '8703.32.83', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.33', '- - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9412', '8703.33.11', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9413', '8703.33.12', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9414', '8703.33.13', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9415', '8703.33.14', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9416', '8703.33.21', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9417', '8703.33.22', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9418', '8703.33.31', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9419', '8703.33.32', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9420', '8703.33.33', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9421', '8703.33.34', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9422', '8703.33.40', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9423', '8703.33.51', '- - - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9424', '8703.33.52', '- - - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9425', '8703.33.53', '- - - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9426', '8703.33.54', '- - - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9427', '8703.33.61', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9428', '8703.33.62', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9429', '8703.33.71', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9430', '8703.33.72', '- - - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9431', '8703.33.80', '- - - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive', '5%', 'EX'], ['9432', '8703.33.90', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8703.40', '- Other vehicles, with both spark-ignition\ninternal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine and electric motor as motors for\npropulsion, other than those capable of\nbeing charged by plugging to external\nsource of electric power :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9433', '8703.40.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9434', '8703.40.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9435', '8703.40.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9436', '8703.40.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9437', '8703.40.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9438', '8703.40.16', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9439', '8703.40.17', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9440', '8703.40.18', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9441', '8703.40.19', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9442', '8703.40.21', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9443', '8703.40.22', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9444', '8703.40.23', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9445', '8703.40.24', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9446', '8703.40.25', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9447', '8703.40.26', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9448', '8703.40.27', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9449', '8703.40.28', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '2,000 cc', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9450', '8703.40.31', '- - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) :', '', ''], ['9451', '8703.40.32', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9452', '8703.40.33', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Ambulances :', '', ''], ['9453', '8703.40.34', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9454', '8703.40.35', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9455', '8703.40.36', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Hearses :', '', ''], ['9456', '8703.40.41', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9457', '8703.40.42', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9458', '8703.40.43', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9459', '8703.40.44', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9460', '8703.40.45', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9461', '8703.40.46', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9462', '8703.40.47', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Prison vans :', '', ''], ['9463', '8703.40.51', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9464', '8703.40.52', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9465', '8703.40.53', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9466', '8703.40.54', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9467', '8703.40.55', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9468', '8703.40.56', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9469', '8703.40.57', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9470', '8703.40.58', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9471', '8703.40.61', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9472', '8703.40.62', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9473', '8703.40.63', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9474', '8703.40.64', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9475', '8703.40.65', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9476', '8703.40.66', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9477', '8703.40.67', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9478', '8703.40.68', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, not of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9479', '8703.40.71', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9480', '8703.40.72', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9481', '8703.40.73', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9482', '8703.40.74', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9483', '8703.40.75', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9484', '8703.40.76', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9485', '8703.40.77', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9486', '8703.40.81', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9487', '8703.40.82', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9488', '8703.40.83', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9489', '8703.40.84', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9490', '8703.40.85', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9491', '8703.40.86', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9492', '8703.40.87', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9493', '8703.40.91', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9494', '8703.40.92', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9495', '8703.40.93', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9496', '8703.40.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9497', '8703.40.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9498', '8703.40.96', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9499', '8703.40.97', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9500', '8703.40.98', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, not of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8703.50', '- Other vehicles, with both compression-\nignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel) and electric motor\nas motors for propulsion, other than those\ncapable of being charged by plugging to\nexternal source of electric power :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9501', '8703.50.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9502', '8703.50.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9503', '8703.50.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9504', '8703.50.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9505', '8703.50.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9506', '8703.50.16', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9507', '8703.50.17', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9508', '8703.50.18', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9509', '8703.50.19', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9510', '8703.50.21', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9511', '8703.50.22', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9512', '8703.50.23', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9513', '8703.50.24', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9514', '8703.50.25', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9515', '8703.50.26', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9516', '8703.50.27', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9517', '8703.50.28', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9518', '8703.50.31', '- - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) :', '', ''], ['9519', '8703.50.32', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9520', '8703.50.33', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Ambulances :', '', ''], ['9521', '8703.50.34', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9522', '8703.50.35', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9523', '8703.50.36', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Hearses :', '', ''], ['9524', '8703.50.41', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9525', '8703.50.42', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9526', '8703.50.43', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9527', '8703.50.44', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9528', '8703.50.45', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9529', '8703.50.46', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9530', '8703.50.47', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Prison vans :', '', ''], ['9531', '8703.50.51', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9532', '8703.50.52', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9533', '8703.50.53', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9534', '8703.50.54', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9535', '8703.50.55', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9536', '8703.50.56', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9537', '8703.50.57', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9538', '8703.50.58', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9539', '8703.50.61', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9540', '8703.50.62', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9541', '8703.50.63', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9542', '8703.50.64', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9543', '8703.50.65', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9544', '8703.50.66', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9545', '8703.50.67', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9546', '8703.50.71', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9547', '8703.50.72', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9548', '8703.50.73', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9549', '8703.50.74', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9550', '8703.50.75', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9551', '8703.50.76', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9552', '8703.50.77', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9553', '8703.50.81', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9554', '8703.50.82', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9555', '8703.50.83', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9556', '8703.50.84', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9557', '8703.50.85', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9558', '8703.50.86', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9559', '8703.50.87', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9560', '8703.50.91', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9561', '8703.50.92', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9562', '8703.50.93', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9563', '8703.50.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9564', '8703.50.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9565', '8703.50.96', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9566', '8703.50.97', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8703.60', '- Other vehicles, with both spark-ignition\ninternal combustion reciprocating piston\nengine and electric motor as motors for\npropulsion, capable of being charged by\nplugging to external source of electric\npower :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9567', '8703.60.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9568', '8703.60.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9569', '8703.60.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9570', '8703.60.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9571', '8703.60.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9572', '8703.60.16', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9573', '8703.60.17', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9574', '8703.60.18', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9575', '8703.60.19', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9576', '8703.60.21', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9577', '8703.60.22', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9578', '8703.60.23', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9579', '8703.60.24', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9580', '8703.60.25', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9581', '8703.60.26', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9582', '8703.60.27', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9583', '8703.60.28', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9584', '8703.60.31', '- - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) :', '', ''], ['9585', '8703.60.32', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9586', '8703.60.33', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Ambulances :', '', ''], ['9587', '8703.60.34', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9588', '8703.60.35', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9589', '8703.60.36', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Hearses :', '', ''], ['9590', '8703.60.41', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9591', '8703.60.42', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9592', '8703.60.43', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9593', '8703.60.44', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9594', '8703.60.45', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9595', '8703.60.46', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9596', '8703.60.47', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Prison vans :', '', ''], ['9597', '8703.60.51', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9598', '8703.60.52', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9599', '8703.60.53', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9600', '8703.60.54', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9601', '8703.60.55', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9602', '8703.60.56', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9603', '8703.60.57', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9604', '8703.60.58', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9605', '8703.60.61', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9606', '8703.60.62', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9607', '8703.60.63', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9608', '8703.60.64', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9609', '8703.60.65', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9610', '8703.60.66', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9611', '8703.60.67', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9612', '8703.60.68', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, not of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9613', '8703.60.71', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9614', '8703.60.72', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9615', '8703.60.73', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9616', '8703.60.74', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9617', '8703.60.75', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9618', '8703.60.76', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9619', '8703.60.77', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9620', '8703.60.81', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9621', '8703.60.82', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9622', '8703.60.83', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9623', '8703.60.84', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9624', '8703.60.85', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9625', '8703.60.86', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9626', '8703.60.87', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9627', '8703.60.91', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', 'exceeding 1,000 cc', '', ''], ['9628', '8703.60.92', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9629', '8703.60.93', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9630', '8703.60.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9631', '8703.60.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9632', '8703.60.96', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '29%', 'EX'], ['9633', '8703.60.97', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['9634', '8703.60.98', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc, not of four-wheel drive', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8703.70', '- Other vehicles, with both compression-\nignition internal combustion piston engine\n(diesel or semi-diesel) and electric motor\nas motors for propulsion, capable of being\ncharged by plugging to external source of\nelectric power :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9635', '8703.70.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9636', '8703.70.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9637', '8703.70.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9638', '8703.70.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9639', '8703.70.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9640', '8703.70.16', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9641', '8703.70.17', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9642', '8703.70.18', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9643', '8703.70.19', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9644', '8703.70.21', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9645', '8703.70.22', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9646', '8703.70.23', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9647', '8703.70.24', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9648', '8703.70.25', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'exceeding 2,000 cc', '', ''], ['9649', '8703.70.26', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9650', '8703.70.27', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9651', '8703.70.28', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9652', '8703.70.31', '- - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV) :', '', ''], ['9653', '8703.70.32', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9654', '8703.70.33', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Ambulances :', '', ''], ['9655', '8703.70.34', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9656', '8703.70.35', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9657', '8703.70.36', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Hearses :', '', ''], ['9658', '8703.70.41', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9659', '8703.70.42', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9660', '8703.70.43', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9661', '8703.70.44', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9662', '8703.70.45', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9663', '8703.70.46', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9664', '8703.70.47', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Prison vans :', '', ''], ['9665', '8703.70.51', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9666', '8703.70.52', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9667', '8703.70.53', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9668', '8703.70.54', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9669', '8703.70.55', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Motor-homes :', '', ''], ['9670', '8703.70.56', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9671', '8703.70.57', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['9672', '8703.70.58', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Sedan :', '', ''], ['9673', '8703.70.61', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9674', '8703.70.62', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9675', '8703.70.63', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9676', '8703.70.64', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9677', '8703.70.65', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9678', '8703.70.66', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9679', '8703.70.67', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9680', '8703.70.71', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9681', '8703.70.72', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9682', '8703.70.73', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9683', '8703.70.74', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9684', '8703.70.75', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9685', '8703.70.76', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9686', '8703.70.77', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans), not of four-wheel drive :', '', ''], ['9687', '8703.70.81', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9688', '8703.70.82', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9689', '8703.70.83', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9690', '8703.70.84', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9691', '8703.70.85', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9692', '8703.70.86', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9693', '8703.70.87', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '3,000 cc', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9694', '8703.70.91', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9695', '8703.70.92', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,000 cc but not exceeding 1,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9696', '8703.70.93', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,500 cc but not exceeding 1,800 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9697', '8703.70.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n1,800 cc but not exceeding 2,000 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9698', '8703.70.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,000 cc but not exceeding 2,500 cc', '5%', 'EX'], ['9699', '8703.70.96', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n2,500 cc but not exceeding 3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['9700', '8703.70.97', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n3,000 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8703.80', '- Other vehicles, with only electric motor\nfor propulsion :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9701', '8703.80.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9702', '8703.80.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9703', '8703.80.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9704', '8703.80.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9705', '8703.80.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9706', '8703.80.16', '- - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9707', '8703.80.17', '- - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['9708', '8703.80.18', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9709', '8703.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9710', '8703.80.91', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9711', '8703.80.92', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9712', '8703.80.93', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9713', '8703.80.94', '- - - Hearses', '5%', 'EX'], ['9714', '8703.80.95', '- - - Prison vans', '5%', 'EX'], ['9715', '8703.80.96', '- - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['9716', '8703.80.97', '- - - Sedan', '5%', 'EX'], ['9717', '8703.80.98', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9718', '8703.80.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8703.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9719', '8703.90.11', '- - - Go-karts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9720', '8703.90.12', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9721', '8703.90.13', '- - - Ambulances', '0%', 'E0'], ['9722', '8703.90.14', '- - - Hearses', '0%', 'E0'], ['9723', '8703.90.15', '- - - Prison vans', '0%', 'E0'], ['9724', '8703.90.16', '- - - Motor-homes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9725', '8703.90.17', '- - - Sedan', '0%', 'E0'], ['9726', '8703.90.18', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9727', '8703.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9728', '8703.90.91', '- - - Go-karts', '5%', 'E10'], ['9729', '8703.90.92', '- - - All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9730', '8703.90.93', '- - - Ambulances', '5%', 'EX'], ['9731', '8703.90.94', '- - - Hearses', '5%', 'EX'], ['9732', '8703.90.95', '- - - Prison vans', '5%', 'EX'], ['9733', '8703.90.96', '- - - Motor-homes', '5%', 'E10'], ['9734', '8703.90.97', '- - - Sedan', '5%', 'EX'], ['9735', '8703.90.98', '- - - Other motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9736', '8703.90.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '87.04', 'Motor vehicles for the transport of\ngoods.', '', ''], ['', '8704.10', '- Dumpers designed for off-highway use :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9737', '8704.10.13', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9738', '8704.10.14', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 5 t but not\nexceeding 10 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9739', '8704.10.15', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 10 t but not\nexceeding 20 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9740', '8704.10.16', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 20 t but not\nexceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9741', '8704.10.17', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 24 t but not\nexceeding 45 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9742', '8704.10.18', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 45 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9743', '8704.10.31', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9744', '8704.10.32', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 5 t but not\nexceeding 10 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9745', '8704.10.33', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 10 t but not\nexceeding 20 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9746', '8704.10.34', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 20 t but not\nexceeding 24 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9747', '8704.10.35', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 24 t but not\nexceeding 38 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9748', '8704.10.36', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 38 t but not\nexceeding 45 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['9749', '8704.10.37', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 45 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel\nor semi-diesel) :', '', ''], ['', '8704.21', '- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9750', '8704.21.11', '- - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9751', '8704.21.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9752', '8704.21.21', '- - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9753', '8704.21.22', '- - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9754', '8704.21.23', '- - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement lorries\n(trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9755', '8704.21.24', '- - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '5%', 'EX'], ['9756', '8704.21.25', '- - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9757', '8704.21.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8704.22', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 t but not exceeding\n20 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 6 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9758', '8704.22.11', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9759', '8704.22.19', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9760', '8704.22.21', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9761', '8704.22.22', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9762', '8704.22.23', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9763', '8704.22.24', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '5%', 'EX'], ['9764', '8704.22.25', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9765', '8704.22.29', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 6 t but not\nexceeding 20 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9766', '8704.22.31', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9767', '8704.22.39', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9768', '8704.22.41', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9769', '8704.22.42', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9770', '8704.22.43', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9771', '8704.22.45', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9772', '8704.22.46', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables, g.v.w. exceeding 6\nt but not exceeding 10 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9773', '8704.22.47', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables, g.v.w. exceeding\n10 t but not exceeding 20 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9774', '8704.22.51', '- - - - - - g.v.w. exceeding 6 t but not\nexceeding 10 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9775', '8704.22.59', '- - - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8704.23', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 20 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 24 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9776', '8704.23.11', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9777', '8704.23.19', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9778', '8704.23.21', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9779', '8704.23.22', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9780', '8704.23.23', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9781', '8704.23.24', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '5%', 'EX'], ['9782', '8704.23.25', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9783', '8704.23.29', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 24 t but not\nexceeding 45 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9784', '8704.23.51', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9785', '8704.23.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9786', '8704.23.61', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9787', '8704.23.62', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['9788', '8704.23.63', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9789', '8704.23.64', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9790', '8704.23.65', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9791', '8704.23.66', '- - - - - Dumpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9792', '8704.23.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 45 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9793', '8704.23.71', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9794', '8704.23.79', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9795', '8704.23.81', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9796', '8704.23.82', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['9797', '8704.23.84', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9798', '8704.23.85', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9799', '8704.23.86', '- - - - - Dumpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9800', '8704.23.89', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other, with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine :', '', ''], ['', '8704.31', '- - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9801', '8704.31.11', '- - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9802', '8704.31.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9803', '8704.31.21', '- - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9804', '8704.31.22', '- - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9805', '8704.31.23', '- - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement lorries\n(trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9806', '8704.31.24', '- - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', 'transporting valuables', '', ''], ['9807', '8704.31.25', '- - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9808', '8704.31.29', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '8704.32', '- - g.v.w. exceeding 5 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 6 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9809', '8704.32.11', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9810', '8704.32.19', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9811', '8704.32.21', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9812', '8704.32.22', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9813', '8704.32.23', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9814', '8704.32.24', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '5%', 'EX'], ['9815', '8704.32.25', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9816', '8704.32.29', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 6 t but not\nexceeding 20 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9817', '8704.32.31', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9818', '8704.32.39', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9819', '8704.32.41', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9820', '8704.32.42', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '5%', 'EX'], ['9821', '8704.32.43', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9822', '8704.32.44', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '5%', 'EX'], ['9823', '8704.32.45', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '5%', 'EX'], ['9824', '8704.32.48', '- - - - - Other, of a g.v.w. exceeding 6 t but\nnot exceeding 10 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9825', '8704.32.49', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 20 t but not\nexceeding 24 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9826', '8704.32.51', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9827', '8704.32.59', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9828', '8704.32.61', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9829', '8704.32.62', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['9830', '8704.32.63', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9831', '8704.32.64', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9832', '8704.32.65', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9833', '8704.32.69', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 24 t but not', '', ''], ['', '', 'exceeding 45 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9834', '8704.32.72', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9835', '8704.32.79', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9836', '8704.32.81', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9837', '8704.32.82', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['9838', '8704.32.83', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9839', '8704.32.84', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9840', '8704.32.85', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9841', '8704.32.86', '- - - - - Dumpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9842', '8704.32.89', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 45 t :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['9843', '8704.32.91', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9844', '8704.32.92', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Other :', '', ''], ['9845', '8704.32.93', '- - - - - Refrigerated lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9846', '8704.32.94', '- - - - - Refuse/garbage collection vehicles\nhaving a refuse compressing device', '0%', 'E0'], ['9847', '8704.32.95', '- - - - - Tanker vehicles; bulk-cement\nlorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9848', '8704.32.96', '- - - - - Armoured cargo vehicles for\ntransporting valuables', '0%', 'E0'], ['9849', '8704.32.97', '- - - - - Hooklift lorries (trucks)', '0%', 'E0'], ['9850', '8704.32.98', '- - - - - Dumpers', '0%', 'E0'], ['9851', '8704.32.99', '- - - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8704.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9852', '8704.90.10', '- - Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9853', '8704.90.91', '- - - g.v.w. not exceeding 5 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9854', '8704.90.92', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 5 t but not\nexceeding 10 t', '5%', 'E15'], ['9855', '8704.90.93', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 10 t but not\nexceeding 20 t', '5%', 'E15'], ['9856', '8704.90.94', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 20 t but not\nexceeding 45 t', '5%', 'EX'], ['9857', '8704.90.95', '- - - g.v.w. exceeding 45 t', '5%', 'E15'], ['', '87.05', 'Special purpose motor vehicles, other\nthan those principally designed for the\ntransport of persons or goods (for\nexample, breakdown lorries, crane\nlorries, fire fighting vehicles, concrete-\nmixer lorries, road sweeper lorries,\nspraying lorries, mobile workshops,\nmobile radiological units).', '', ''], ['9858', '8705.10.00', '- Crane lorries', '0%', 'E0'], ['9859', '8705.20.00', '- Mobile drilling derricks', '0%', 'E0'], ['9860', '8705.30.00', '- Fire fighting vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['9861', '8705.40.00', '- Concrete-mixer lorries', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8705.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['9862', '8705.90.50', '- - Street cleaning vehicles; cesspool\nemptiers; mobile clinics; spraying lorries\nof all kinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['9863', '8705.90.60', '- - Mobile explosive production vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['9864', '8705.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.06', 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the\nmotor vehicles of headings 87.01 to\n87.05.', '', ''], ['', '', '- For vehicles of heading 87.01 :', '', ''], ['9865', '8706.00.11', '- - For agricultural tractors of subheading\n8701.10.11, 8701.10.91, 8701.91.10,\n8701.92.10, 8701.93.10, 8701.94.10 or\n8701.95.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['9866', '8706.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- For vehicles of heading 87.02 :', '', ''], ['9867', '8706.00.21', '- - For motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,\nbuses, minibuses or vans)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9868', '8706.00.22', '- - Other, for vehicles with g.v.w. not\nexceeding 24 t', '5%', 'E10'], ['9869', '8706.00.23', '- - Other, for vehicles with g.v.w.\nexceeding 24 t', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- For vehicles of heading 87.03 :', '', ''], ['9870', '8706.00.31', '- - For go-karts and golf cars (including\ngolf buggies) and similar vehicles', '5%', 'E0'], ['9871', '8706.00.32', '- - For ambulances', '5%', 'E10'], ['9872', '8706.00.33', '- - For motor cars (including station\nwagons and sports cars, but not including\nvans)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9873', '8706.00.39', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- For vehicles of heading 87.04 :', '', ''], ['9874', '8706.00.41', '- - For vehicles with g.v.w. not exceeding\n24 t', '5%', 'E10'], ['9875', '8706.00.42', '- - For vehicles with g.v.w. exceeding 24 t', '5%', 'E10'], ['9876', '8706.00.50', '- For vehicles of heading 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.07', 'Bodies (including cabs), for the motor\nvehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.', '', ''], ['', '8707.10', '- For the vehicles of heading 87.03 :', '', ''], ['9877', '8707.10.10', '- - For go-karts and golf cars (including\ngolf buggies) and similar vehicles', '5%', 'E0'], ['9878', '8707.10.20', '- - For ambulances', '5%', 'E10'], ['9879', '8707.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8707.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.01 :', '', ''], ['9880', '8707.90.11', "- - - Driver's cabin for vehicles of\nsubheading 8701.20", '0%', 'E0'], ['9881', '8707.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.02 :', '', ''], ['9882', '8707.90.21', '- - - For motor cars (including stretch\nlimousines but not including coaches,', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', 'buses, minibuses or vans)', '', ''], ['9883', '8707.90.29', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['9884', '8707.90.30', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.05', '0%', 'E0'], ['9885', '8707.90.40', "- - Driver's cabin for dumpers designed\nfor off-highway use", '5%', 'E10'], ['9886', '8707.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '87.08', 'Parts and accessories of the motor\nvehicles of headings 87.01 to 87.05.', '', ''], ['', '8708.10', '- Bumpers and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9887', '8708.10.10', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9888', '8708.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other parts and accessories of bodies\n(including cabs) :', '', ''], ['9889', '8708.21.00', '- - Safety seat belts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Components of door trim assemblies :', '', ''], ['9890', '8708.29.11', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9891', '8708.29.15', '- - - - Door armrests for vehicles of\nheading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9892', '8708.29.16', '- - - - Other, for vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9893', '8708.29.17', '- - - - For vehicles of subheading 8704.10', '5%', 'E10'], ['9894', '8708.29.18', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\nother vehicles of heading 87.04', '5%', 'E0'], ['9895', '8708.29.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['9896', '8708.29.20', '- - - Parts of safety seat belts', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9897', '8708.29.92', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.03 :', '', ''], ['9898', '8708.29.93', '- - - - - Interior trim fittings; mudguards', '5%', 'E10'], ['9899', '8708.29.94', '- - - - - Hood rods', '5%', 'E10'], ['9900', '8708.29.95', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04 :', '', ''], ['9901', '8708.29.96', '- - - - - Interior trim fittings; mudguards', '5%', 'E10'], ['9902', '8708.29.97', '- - - - - Hood rods', '5%', 'E10'], ['9903', '8708.29.98', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['9904', '8708.29.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.30', '- Brakes and servo-brakes; parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9905', '8708.30.10', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For vehicles of heading 87.03 :', '', ''], ['9906', '8708.30.21', '- - - Brake drums, brake discs or brake\npipes', '0%', 'E0'], ['9907', '8708.30.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['9908', '8708.30.30', '- - Brake drums, brake discs or brake\npipes for vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04', '5%', 'E10'], ['9909', '8708.30.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.40', '- Gear boxes and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Gear boxes, unassembled :', '', ''], ['9910', '8708.40.11', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9911', '8708.40.13', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.04 or\n87.05', '5%', 'E0'], ['9912', '8708.40.14', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E0'], ['9913', '8708.40.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Gear boxes, assembled :', '', ''], ['9914', '8708.40.25', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E0'], ['9915', '8708.40.26', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9916', '8708.40.27', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.04 or\n87.05', '5%', 'E0'], ['9917', '8708.40.29', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['9918', '8708.40.91', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E0'], ['9919', '8708.40.92', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9920', '8708.40.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.50', '- Drive-axles with differential, whether or\nnot provided with other transmission\ncomponents, and non-driving axles; parts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Unassembled :', '', ''], ['9921', '8708.50.11', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9922', '8708.50.13', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.04 or\n87.05', '5%', 'E0'], ['9923', '8708.50.15', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9924', '8708.50.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Assembled :', '', ''], ['9925', '8708.50.25', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9926', '8708.50.26', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9927', '8708.50.27', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.04 or\n87.05', '5%', 'E10'], ['9928', '8708.50.29', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01 :', '', ''], ['9929', '8708.50.91', '- - - - Crown wheels and pinions', '0%', 'E0'], ['9930', '8708.50.92', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03 :', '', ''], ['9931', '8708.50.94', '- - - - Crown wheels and pinions', '0%', 'E0'], ['9932', '8708.50.95', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9933', '8708.50.96', '- - - - Crown wheels and pinions', '0%', 'E0'], ['9934', '8708.50.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.70', '- Road wheels and parts and accessories\nthereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Hub-caps :', '', ''], ['9935', '8708.70.15', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9936', '8708.70.16', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04 :', '', ''], ['9937', '8708.70.17', '- - - - For vehicles of subheading 8704.10', '5%', 'E10'], ['9938', '8708.70.18', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['9939', '8708.70.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Wheels fitted with tyres :', '', ''], ['9940', '8708.70.21', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9941', '8708.70.22', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9942', '8708.70.23', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04 (excluding subheading 8704.10)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9943', '8708.70.29', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Wheels not fitted with tyres :', '', ''], ['9944', '8708.70.31', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9945', '8708.70.32', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9946', '8708.70.33', '- - - For dumpers designed for off-\nhighway use with g.v.w. exceeding 45 t', '5%', 'E0'], ['9947', '8708.70.34', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\nother vehicles of heading 87.04', '5%', 'E10'], ['9948', '8708.70.39', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['9949', '8708.70.95', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9950', '8708.70.96', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04', '5%', 'E10'], ['9951', '8708.70.97', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9952', '8708.70.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8708.80', '- Suspension systems and parts thereof\n(including shock-absorbers) :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Suspension systems :', '', ''], ['9953', '8708.80.15', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9954', '8708.80.16', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9955', '8708.80.17', '- - - For vehicles of subheading 8704.10\nor heading 87.05', '5%', 'E10'], ['9956', '8708.80.19', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['9957', '8708.80.91', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E10'], ['9958', '8708.80.92', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9959', '8708.80.99', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['', '8708.91', '- - Radiators and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Radiators :', '', ''], ['9960', '8708.91.15', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9961', '8708.91.16', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\n87.04 :', '', ''], ['9962', '8708.91.17', '- - - - - For vehicles of subheading\n8704.10', '5%', 'E10'], ['9963', '8708.91.18', '- - - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['9964', '8708.91.19', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Parts :', '', ''], ['9965', '8708.91.91', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '5%', 'E10'], ['9966', '8708.91.93', '- - - - Drain plugs, for vehicles of heading\n87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9967', '8708.91.94', '- - - - Drain plugs, for vehicles of heading\n87.02 or 87.04 (excluding subheading\n8704.10)', '5%', 'E10'], ['9968', '8708.91.95', '- - - - Other, for vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['9969', '8708.91.99', '- - - - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8708.92', '- - Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust pipes;\nparts thereof :', '', ''], ['9970', '8708.92.10', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9971', '8708.92.20', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of subheading 8704.10 :', '', ''], ['9972', '8708.92.51', '- - - - Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust\npipes', '5%', 'E10'], ['9973', '8708.92.52', '- - - - Parts', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02 or\nother vehicles of heading 87.04 :', '', ''], ['9974', '8708.92.61', '- - - - Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust\npipes', '5%', 'E10'], ['9975', '8708.92.62', '- - - - Parts', '5%', 'E10'], ['9976', '8708.92.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.93', '- - Clutches and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9977', '8708.93.50', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9978', '8708.93.60', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '5%', 'E0'], ['9979', '8708.93.70', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.04 or\n87.05', '5%', 'E10'], ['9980', '8708.93.90', '- - - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.94', '- - Steering wheels, steering columns and\nsteering boxes; parts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Steering wheels with airbag\nassemblies :', '', ''], ['9981', '8708.94.11', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9982', '8708.94.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['9983', '8708.94.94', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.01', '0%', 'E0'], ['9984', '8708.94.95', '- - - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '0%', 'E0'], ['9985', '8708.94.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.95', '- - Safety airbags with inflater system;\nparts thereof :', '', ''], ['9986', '8708.95.10', '- - - Safety airbags with inflater system', '0%', 'E0'], ['9987', '8708.95.90', '- - - Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8708.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.01 :', '', ''], ['9988', '8708.99.11', '- - - - Unassembled fuel tanks; engine\nbrackets', '0%', 'E0'], ['9989', '8708.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - For vehicles of heading 87.02, 87.03\nor 87.04 :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - - Fuel tanks and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9990', '8708.99.21', '- - - - - Fuel tanks', '0%', 'E0'], ['9991', '8708.99.24', '- - - - - Lower half of the fuel tank; fuel\ncaps; filler pipes; filler hose assembly;\nfuel tank bands', '0%', 'E0'], ['9992', '8708.99.25', '- - - - - Other parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['9993', '8708.99.30', '- - - - Accelerator, brake or clutch pedals', '0%', 'E0'], ['9994', '8708.99.40', '- - - - Battery carriers or trays and\nbrackets therefor', '0%', 'E0'], ['9995', '8708.99.50', '- - - - Radiator shrouds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - - Chassis frames or parts thereof :', '', ''], ['9996', '8708.99.61', '- - - - - For vehicles of heading 87.02', '0%', 'E0'], ['9997', '8708.99.62', '- - - - - For vehicles of heading 87.03', '0%', 'E0'], ['9998', '8708.99.63', '- - - - - For vehicles of heading 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['9999', '8708.99.70', '- - - - Engine brackets', '0%', 'E0'], ['10000', '8708.99.80', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10001', '8708.99.91', '- - - - Unassembled fuel tanks; engine\nbrackets', '0%', 'E0'], ['10002', '8708.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.09', 'Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted\nwith lifting or handling equipment, of\nthe type used in factories, warehouses,\ndock areas or airports for short\ndistance transport of goods; tractors of\nthe type used on railway station\nplatforms; parts of the foregoing\nvehicles.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Vehicles :', '', ''], ['10003', '8709.11.00', '- - Electrical', '0%', 'E0'], ['10004', '8709.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10005', '8709.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['10006', '8710.00.00', 'Tanks and other armoured fighting\nvehicles, motorised, whether or not\nfitted with weapons, and parts of such\nvehicles.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.11', 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and\ncycles fitted with an auxiliary motor,\nwith or without side-cars; side-cars.', '', ''], ['', '8711.10', '- With reciprocating internal combustion\npiston engine of a cylinder capacity not\nexceeding 50 cc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['10007', '8711.10.12', '- - - Mopeds and motorised bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10008', '8711.10.14', '- - - Powered kick scooters; “pocket\nmotorcycles”', '0%', 'E0'], ['10009', '8711.10.15', '- - - Other motorcycles and motor\nscooters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10010', '8711.10.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10011', '8711.10.92', '- - - Mopeds and motorised bicycles', '19%', 'E10'], ['10012', '8711.10.94', '- - - Powered kick scooters; “pocket\nmotorcycles”', '19%', 'EX'], ['10013', '8711.10.95', '- - - Other motorcycles and motor\nscooters', '19%', 'E10'], ['10014', '8711.10.99', '- - - Other', '19%', 'EX'], ['', '8711.20', '- With reciprocating internal combustion\npiston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 50 cc but not exceeding 250\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['10015', '8711.20.11', '- - - Motocross motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10016', '8711.20.12', '- - - Mopeds and motorised bicycles', '13%', 'E15'], ['10017', '8711.20.13', '- - - ”Pocket motorcycles”', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other motorcycles (with or without\nside-cars), including motor scooters :', '', ''], ['10018', '8711.20.14', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['10019', '8711.20.15', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc', '0%', 'E0'], ['10020', '8711.20.16', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10021', '8711.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10022', '8711.20.91', '- - - Motocross motorcycles', '19%', 'E10'], ['10023', '8711.20.92', '- - - Mopeds and motorised bicycles', '13%', 'E10'], ['10024', '8711.20.93', '- - - "Pocket motorcycles”', '19%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - - Other motorcycles (with or without\nside-cars), including motor scooters :', '', ''], ['10025', '8711.20.94', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n150 cc but not exceeding 200 cc', '19%', 'E10'], ['10026', '8711.20.95', '- - - - Of a cylinder capacity exceeding\n200 cc but not exceeding 250 cc', '19%', 'E10'], ['10027', '8711.20.96', '- - - - Other', '19%', 'E10'], ['10028', '8711.20.99', '- - - Other', '19%', 'EX'], ['', '8711.30', '- With reciprocating internal combustion\npiston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 250 cc but not exceeding 500\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Motocross motorcycles :', '', ''], ['10029', '8711.30.11', '- - - Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10030', '8711.30.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10031', '8711.30.30', '- - Other, Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10032', '8711.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8711.40', '- With reciprocating internal combustion\npiston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 500 cc but not exceeding 800\ncc :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Motocross motorcycles :', '', ''], ['10033', '8711.40.11', '- - - Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10034', '8711.40.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10035', '8711.40.20', '- - Other, Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10036', '8711.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8711.50', '- With reciprocating internal combustion\npiston engine of a cylinder capacity\nexceeding 800 cc :', '', ''], ['10037', '8711.50.20', '- - Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10038', '8711.50.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '8711.60', '- With electric motor for propulsion :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Completely Knocked Down :', '', ''], ['10039', '8711.60.11', '- - - Bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10040', '8711.60.12', '- - - Kick scooters; self-balancing cycle;\n"pocket motorcycles”', '0%', 'E0'], ['10041', '8711.60.13', '- - - Other motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10042', '8711.60.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10043', '8711.60.91', '- - - Bicycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10044', '8711.60.92', '- - - Kick scooters; self-balancing cycle;\n"pocket motorcycles”', '0%', 'E0'], ['10045', '8711.60.93', '- - - Other motorcycles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10046', '8711.60.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8711.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10047', '8711.90.40', '- - Side-cars', '0%', 'E0'], ['10048', '8711.90.60', '- - Other, Completely Knocked Down', '0%', 'E0'], ['10049', '8711.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.12', 'Bicycles and other cycles (including\ndelivery tricycles), not motorised.', '', ''], ['10050', '8712.00.10', '- Racing bicycles', '8%', 'E10'], ['10051', '8712.00.20', '- Bicycles designed to be ridden by\nchildren', '8%', 'EX'], ['10052', '8712.00.30', '- Other bicycles', '8%', 'E10'], ['10053', '8712.00.90', '- Other', '8%', 'E10'], ['', '87.13', 'Carriages for disabled persons,\nwhether or not motorised or otherwise\nmechanically propelled.', '', ''], ['10054', '8713.10.00', '- Not mechanically propelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['10055', '8713.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.14', 'Parts and accessories of vehicles of\nheadings 87.11 to 87.13.', '', ''], ['', '8714.10', '- Of motorcycles (including mopeds) :', '', ''], ['10056', '8714.10.10', '- - Saddles', '5%', 'E10'], ['10057', '8714.10.20', '- - Spokes and nipples', '0%', 'E0'], ['10058', '8714.10.30', '- - Frame and forks including telescopic\nfork, rear suspension and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10059', '8714.10.40', '- - Gearing, gearbox, clutch and other\ntransmission equipment and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10060', '8714.10.50', '- - Wheel rims', '0%', 'E0'], ['10061', '8714.10.60', '- - Brakes and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10062', '8714.10.70', '- - Silencers (mufflers) and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10063', '8714.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.20', '- Of carriages for disabled persons :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Castors wheels :', '', ''], ['10064', '8714.20.11', '- - - Of a diameter (including tyres)\nexceeding 75 mm but not exceeding 100\nmm, provided that the width of any wheel\nor tyre fitted thereto is not less than 30\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10065', '8714.20.12', '- - - Of a diameter (including tyres)\nexceeding 100 mm but not exceeding 250\nmm, provided that the width of any wheel\nor tyre fitted thereto is not less than 30\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10066', '8714.20.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10067', '8714.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '8714.91', '- - Frames and forks, and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['10068', '8714.91.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10069', '8714.91.91', '- - - - Parts for forks', '8%', 'E0'], ['10070', '8714.91.99', '- - - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.92', '- - Wheel rims and spokes :', '', ''], ['10071', '8714.92.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['10072', '8714.92.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.93', '- - Hubs, other than coaster braking hubs\nand hub brakes, and free-wheel sprocket-\nwheels :', '', ''], ['10073', '8714.93.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['10074', '8714.93.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.94', '- - Brakes, including coaster braking hubs\nand hub brakes, and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['10075', '8714.94.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['10076', '8714.94.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.95', '- - Saddles :', '', ''], ['10077', '8714.95.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['10078', '8714.95.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.96', '- - Pedals and crank-gear, and parts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['10079', '8714.96.10', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20', '8%', 'E0'], ['10080', '8714.96.90', '- - - Other', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '8714.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - For bicycles of subheading\n8712.00.20 :', '', ''], ['10081', '8714.99.11', '- - - - Handle bars, pillars, mudguards,\nreflectors, carriers, control cables, lamp\nbrackets or bracket lugs; other accessories', '8%', 'E0'], ['10082', '8714.99.12', '- - - - Chain wheels and cranks; other\nparts', '8%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10083', '8714.99.91', '- - - - Handle bars, pillars, mudguards,\nreflectors, carriers, control cables, lamp\nbrackets or bracket lugs; other accessories', '8%', 'E0'], ['10084', '8714.99.93', '- - - - Nipples for spokes', '8%', 'E0'], ['10085', '8714.99.94', '- - - - Chain wheels and cranks; other\nparts', '8%', 'E0'], ['10086', '8715.00.00', 'Baby carriages and parts thereof.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '87.16', 'Trailers and semi-trailers; other\nvehicles, not mechanically propelled;\nparts thereof.', '', ''], ['10087', '8716.10.00', '- Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan\ntype, for housing or camping', '0%', 'E0'], ['10088', '8716.20.00', '- Self-loading or self-unloading trailers\nand semi-trailers for agricultural purposes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other trailers and semi-trailers for the\ntransport of goods :', '', ''], ['10089', '8716.31.00', '- - Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8716.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10090', '8716.39.40', '- - - Agricultural trailers and semi-trailers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10091', '8716.39.91', '- - - - Having a carrying capacity\n(payload) exceeding 200 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['10092', '8716.39.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10093', '8716.40.00', '- Other trailers and semi-trailers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8716.80', '- Other vehicles :', '', ''], ['10094', '8716.80.10', '- - Carts and wagons, sack trucks, hand\ntrolleys and similar hand-propelled\nvehicles of a kind used in factories or\nworkshops, except wheelbarrows', '0%', 'E0'], ['10095', '8716.80.20', '- - Wheelbarrows', '0%', 'E0'], ['10096', '8716.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8716.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For trailers and semi-trailers :', '', ''], ['10097', '8716.90.13', '- - - For goods of subheading 8716.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['10098', '8716.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For vehicles of subheading 8716.80.10\nor 8716.80.20 :', '', ''], ['10099', '8716.90.21', '- - - Castor wheels, of a diameter\n(including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but\nnot more than 250 mm provided the width\nof the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more\nthan 30 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10100', '8716.90.22', '- - - Other castor wheels', '0%', 'E0'], ['10101', '8716.90.23', '- - - Other, for goods of subheading\n8716.80.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['10102', '8716.90.24', '- - - Other, for goods of subheading\n8716.80.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - For other vehicles :', '', ''], ['10103', '8716.90.94', '- - - Spokes and nipples', '0%', 'E0'], ['10104', '8716.90.95', '- - - Castor wheels, of a diameter\n(including tyres) exceeding 100 mm but\nnot more than 250 mm provided the width\nof the wheel or tyre fitted thereto is more\nthan 30 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10105', '8716.90.96', '- - - Other castor wheels', '0%', 'E0'], ['10106', '8716.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10107', '8801.00.00', 'Balloons and dirigibles; gliders, hang\ngliders and other non-powered aircraft.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '88.02', 'Other aircraft (for example,\nhelicopters, aeroplanes); spacecraft\n(including satellites) and suborbital and\nspacecraft launch vehicles.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Helicopters :', '', ''], ['10108', '8802.11.00', '- - Of an unladen weight not exceeding\n2,000 kg', '0%', 'E0'], ['10109', '8802.12.00', '- - Of an unladen weight exceeding 2,000\nkg', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8802.20', '- Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an\nunladen weight not exceeding 2,000 kg :', '', ''], ['10110', '8802.20.10', '- - Aeroplanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10111', '8802.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8802.30', '- Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an\nunladen weight exceeding 2,000 kg but\nnot exceeding 15,000 kg :', '', ''], ['10112', '8802.30.10', '- - Aeroplanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10113', '8802.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8802.40', '- Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an\nunladen weight exceeding 15,000 kg :', '', ''], ['10114', '8802.40.10', '- - Aeroplanes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10115', '8802.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10116', '8802.60.00', '- Spacecraft (including satellites) and\nsuborbital and spacecraft launch vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '88.03', 'Parts of goods of heading 88.01 or\n88.02.', '', ''], ['10117', '8803.10.00', '- Propellers and rotors and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10118', '8803.20.00', '- Under-carriages and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10119', '8803.30.00', '- Other parts of aeroplanes or helicopters', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8803.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10120', '8803.90.10', '- - Of telecommunications satellites', '0%', 'E0'], ['10121', '8803.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '88.04', 'Parachutes (including dirigible\nparachutes and paragliders) and\nrotochutes; parts thereof and\naccessories thereto.', '', ''], ['10122', '8804.00.10', '- Rotochutes and parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10123', '8804.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '88.05', 'Aircraft launching gear; deck-arrestor\nor similar gear; ground flying trainers;\nparts of the foregoing articles.', '', ''], ['10124', '8805.10.00', '- Aircraft launching gear and parts\nthereof; deck-arrestor or similar gear and\nparts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Ground flying trainers and parts\nthereof :', '', ''], ['10125', '8805.21.00', '- - Air combat simulators and parts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8805.29', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10126', '8805.29.10', '- - - Ground flying trainers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10127', '8805.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.01', 'Cruise ships, excursion boats, ferry-\nboats, cargo ships, barges and similar\nvessels for the transport of persons or\ngoods.', '', ''], ['', '8901.10', '- Cruise ships, excursion boats and similar\nvessels principally designed for the\ntransport of persons; ferry-boats of all\nkinds :', '', ''], ['10128', '8901.10.10', '- - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['10129', '8901.10.20', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 26 but\nnot exceeding 500', '0%', 'E0'], ['10130', '8901.10.60', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 500 but\nnot exceeding 1,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10131', '8901.10.70', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 1,000\nbut not exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10132', '8901.10.80', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 4,000\nbut not exceeding 5,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10133', '8901.10.90', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 5,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8901.20', '- Tankers :', '', ''], ['10134', '8901.20.50', '- - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding\n5,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10135', '8901.20.70', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 5,000\nbut not exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10136', '8901.20.80', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8901.30', '- Refrigerated vessels, other than those of\nsubheading 8901.20 :', '', ''], ['10137', '8901.30.50', '- - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding\n5,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10138', '8901.30.70', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 5,000\nbut not exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10139', '8901.30.80', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8901.90', '- Other vessels for the transport of goods\nand other vessels for the transport of both\npersons and goods :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Not motorised :', '', ''], ['10140', '8901.90.11', '- - - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['10141', '8901.90.12', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 26 but\nnot exceeding 500', '0%', 'E0'], ['10142', '8901.90.14', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 500', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Motorised :', '', ''], ['10143', '8901.90.31', '- - - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['10144', '8901.90.32', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 26 but\nnot exceeding 500', '0%', 'E0'], ['10145', '8901.90.33', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 500 but\nnot exceeding 1,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10146', '8901.90.34', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 1,000\nbut not exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10147', '8901.90.35', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 4,000\nbut not exceeding 5,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10148', '8901.90.36', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 5,000\nbut not exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10149', '8901.90.37', '- - - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 50,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.02', 'Fishing vessels; factory ships and other\nvessels for processing or preserving\nfishery products.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Fishing vessels :', '', ''], ['10150', '8902.00.31', '- - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['10151', '8902.00.32', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 26 but\nless than 40', '0%', 'E0'], ['10152', '8902.00.33', '- - Of a gross tonnage of 40 or more but\nnot exceeding 101', '0%', 'E0'], ['10153', '8902.00.34', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 101 but\nnot exceeding 250', '0%', 'E0'], ['10154', '8902.00.35', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 250 but\nnot exceeding 1,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10155', '8902.00.36', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 1,000\nbut not exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10156', '8902.00.37', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10157', '8902.00.41', '- - Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['10158', '8902.00.42', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 26 but\nless than 40', '0%', 'E0'], ['10159', '8902.00.43', '- - Of a gross tonnage of 40 or more but\nnot exceeding 101', '0%', 'E0'], ['10160', '8902.00.44', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 101 but\nnot exceeding 250', '0%', 'E0'], ['10161', '8902.00.45', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 250 but\nnot exceeding 1,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10162', '8902.00.46', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 1,000\nbut not exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['10163', '8902.00.47', '- - Of a gross tonnage exceeding 4,000', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.03', 'Yachts and other vessels for pleasure or\nsports; rowing boats and canoes.', '', ''], ['10164', '8903.10.00', '- Inflatable', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10165', '8903.91.00', '- - Sailboats, with or without auxiliary\nmotor', '0%', 'E0'], ['10166', '8903.92.00', '- - Motorboats, other than outboard\nmotorboats', '0%', 'E0'], ['10167', '8903.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.04', 'Tugs and pusher craft.', '', ''], ['10168', '8904.00.10', '- Of a gross tonnage not exceeding 26', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Of gross tonnage exceeding 26 :', '', ''], ['10169', '8904.00.31', '- - Of a power not exceeding 4,000 hp', '0%', 'E0'], ['10170', '8904.00.39', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.05', 'Light-vessels, fire-floats, dredgers,\nfloating cranes and other vessels the\nnavigability of which is subsidiary to\ntheir main function; floating docks;\nfloating or submersible drilling or\nproduction platforms.', '', ''], ['10171', '8905.10.00', '- Dredgers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10172', '8905.20.00', '- Floating or submersible drilling or\nproduction platforms', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8905.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10173', '8905.90.10', '- - Floating docks', '0%', 'E0'], ['10174', '8905.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.06', 'Other vessels, including warships and\nlifeboats other than rowing boats.', '', ''], ['10175', '8906.10.00', '- Warships', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8906.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10176', '8906.90.10', '- - Of a displacement not exceeding 30 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['10177', '8906.90.20', '- - Of a displacement exceeding 30 t but\nnot exceeding 300 t', '0%', 'E0'], ['10178', '8906.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '89.07', 'Other floating structures (for example,\nrafts, tanks, coffer-dams, landing-\nstages, buoys and beacons).', '', ''], ['10179', '8907.10.00', '- Inflatable rafts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '8907.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10180', '8907.90.10', '- - Buoys', '0%', 'E0'], ['10181', '8907.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10182', '8908.00.00', 'Vessels and other floating structures for\nbreaking up.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.01', 'Optical fibres and optical fibre\nbundles; optical fibre cables other than\nthose of heading 85.44; sheets and\nplates of polarising material; lenses\n(including contact lenses), prisms,\nmirrors and other optical elements, of\nany material, unmounted, other than\nsuch elements of glass not optically\nworked.', '', ''], ['', '9001.10', '- Optical fibres, optical fibre bundles and\ncables :', '', ''], ['10183', '9001.10.10', '- - For telecommunications and other\nelectrical uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10184', '9001.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10185', '9001.20.00', '- Sheets and plates of polarising material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10186', '9001.30.00', '- Contact lenses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10187', '9001.40.00', '- Spectacle lenses of glass', '0%', 'E0'], ['10188', '9001.50.00', '- Spectacle lenses of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9001.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10189', '9001.90.10', '- - For photographic or cinematographic\ncameras or projectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10190', '9001.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.02', 'Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other\noptical elements, of any material,\nmounted, being parts of or fittings for\ninstruments or apparatus, other than\nsuch elements of glass not optically\nworked.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Objective lenses :', '', ''], ['10191', '9002.11.00', '- - For cameras, projectors or\nphotographic enlargers or reducers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10192', '9002.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9002.20', '- Filters :', '', ''], ['10193', '9002.20.10', '- - For cinematographic projectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10194', '9002.20.20', '- - For cinematographic cameras,\nphotographic cameras and other\nprojectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10195', '9002.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9002.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10196', '9002.90.20', '- - For cinematographic projectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10197', '9002.90.30', '- - For cinematographic cameras,\nphotographic cameras and other\nprojectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10198', '9002.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.03', 'Frames and mountings for spectacles,\ngoggles or the like, and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Frames and mountings :', '', ''], ['10199', '9003.11.00', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10200', '9003.19.00', '- - Of other materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['10201', '9003.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.04', 'Spectacles, goggles and the like,\ncorrective, protective or other.', '', ''], ['10202', '9004.10.00', '- Sunglasses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9004.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10203', '9004.90.10', '- - Corrective spectacles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10204', '9004.90.50', '- - Protective goggles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10205', '9004.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.05', 'Binoculars, monoculars, other optical\ntelescopes, and mountings therefor;\nother astronomical instruments and\nmountings therefor, but not including\ninstruments for radio-astronomy.', '', ''], ['10206', '9005.10.00', '- Binoculars', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9005.80', '- Other instruments :', '', ''], ['10207', '9005.80.10', '- - Astronomical instruments, excluding\ninstruments for radio-astronomy', '0%', 'E0'], ['10208', '9005.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9005.90', '- Parts and accessories (including\nmountings) :', '', ''], ['10209', '9005.90.10', '- - For astronomical instruments,\nexcluding instruments for radio-\nastronomy', '0%', 'E0'], ['10210', '9005.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.06', 'Photographic (other than\ncinematographic) cameras;\nphotographic flashlight apparatus and\nflashbulbs other than discharge lamps\nof heading 85.39.', '', ''], ['10211', '9006.30.00', '- Cameras specially designed for\nunderwater use, for aerial survey or for\nmedical or surgical examination of\ninternal organs; comparison cameras for\nforensic or criminological purposes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10212', '9006.40.00', '- Instant print cameras', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other cameras :', '', ''], ['10213', '9006.51.00', '- - With a through-the-lens viewfinder\n(single lens reflex (SLR)), for roll film of\na width not exceeding 35 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10214', '9006.52.00', '- - Other, for roll film of a width less than\n35 mm', '0%', 'E0'], ['10215', '9006.53.00', '- - Other, for roll film of a width of 35\nmm', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9006.59', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Cameras of a kind used for preparing\nprinting plates or cylinders :', '', ''], ['10216', '9006.59.21', '- - - - Laser photoplotters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10217', '9006.59.29', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10218', '9006.59.30', '- - - Laser photoplotters or image setters\nwith a raster image processor', '0%', 'E0'], ['10219', '9006.59.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Photographic flashlight apparatus and\nflashbulbs :', '', ''], ['10220', '9006.61.00', '- - Discharge lamp (“electronic”)\nflashlight apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10221', '9006.69.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['', '9006.91', '- - For cameras :', '', ''], ['10222', '9006.91.10', '- - - For laser photoplotters of subheading\n9006.59.21', '0%', 'E0'], ['10223', '9006.91.30', '- - - Other, for cameras of subheadings\n9006.40 to 9006.53', '0%', 'E0'], ['10224', '9006.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9006.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10225', '9006.99.10', '- - - For photographic flashlight apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10226', '9006.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.07', 'Cinematographic cameras and\nprojectors, whether or not\nincorporating sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus.', '', ''], ['10227', '9007.10.00', '- Cameras', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9007.20', '- Projectors :', '', ''], ['10228', '9007.20.10', '- - For film of less than 16 mm in width', '0%', 'E0'], ['10229', '9007.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10230', '9007.91.00', '- - For cameras', '0%', 'E0'], ['10231', '9007.92.00', '- - For projectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.08', 'Image projectors, other than\ncinematographic; photographic (other\nthan cinematographic) enlargers and\nreducers.', '', ''], ['', '9008.50', '- Projectors, enlargers and reducers :', '', ''], ['10232', '9008.50.10', '- - Microfilm, microfiche or other\nmicroform readers, whether or not\ncapable of producing copies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10233', '9008.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9008.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10234', '9008.90.20', '- - Of photographic (other than\ncinematographic) enlargers and reducers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10235', '9008.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.10', 'Apparatus and equipment for\nphotographic (including\ncinematographic) laboratories, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter; negatoscopes; projection\nscreens.', '', ''], ['10236', '9010.10.00', '- Apparatus and equipment for\nautomatically developing photographic\n(including cinematographic) film or paper\nin rolls or for automatically exposing\ndeveloped film to rolls of photographic\npaper', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9010.50', '- Other apparatus and equipment for\nphotographic (including cinematographic)\nlaboratories; negatoscopes :', '', ''], ['10237', '9010.50.10', '- - Apparatus for the projection or\ndrawing of circuit patterns on sensitised\nsubstrates for the manufacture of printed\ncircuit boards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10238', '9010.50.20', '- - Cinematographic editing and titling\nequipment; negatoscopes for X-ray;\nContact exposure unit used for the\npreparation of film in colour separation\nprocess; Automatic plate maker', '0%', 'E0'], ['10239', '9010.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9010.60', '- Projection screens :', '', ''], ['10240', '9010.60.10', '- - Of 300 inches or more', '0%', 'E0'], ['10241', '9010.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9010.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10242', '9010.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 9010.10 or\n9010.60', '0%', 'E0'], ['10243', '9010.90.30', '- - Parts and accessories of apparatus for\nthe projection or drawing of circuit\npatterns on sensitised substrates for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10244', '9010.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.11', 'Compound optical microscopes,\nincluding those for photomicrography,\ncinephotomicrography or\nmicroprojection.', '', ''], ['10245', '9011.10.00', '- Stereoscopic microscopes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10246', '9011.20.00', '- Other microscopes, for\nphotomicrography, cinephotomicrography\nor microprojection', '0%', 'E0'], ['10247', '9011.80.00', '- Other microscopes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10248', '9011.90.00', '- Parts and accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.12', 'Microscopes other than optical\nmicroscopes; diffraction apparatus.', '', ''], ['10249', '9012.10.00', '- Microscopes other than optical\nmicroscopes; diffraction apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10250', '9012.90.00', '- Parts and accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.13', 'Liquid crystal devices not constituting\narticles provided for more specifically\nin other headings; lasers, other than\nlaser diodes; other optical appliances\nand instruments, not specified or\nincluded elsewhere in this Chapter.', '', ''], ['10251', '9013.10.00', '- Telescopic sights for fitting to arms;\nperiscopes; telescopes designed to form\nparts of machines, appliances, instruments\nor apparatus of this Chapter or Section\nXVI', '0%', 'E0'], ['10252', '9013.20.00', '- Lasers, other than laser diodes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9013.80', '- Other devices, appliances and\ninstruments :', '', ''], ['10253', '9013.80.10', '- - Optical error verification and repair\napparatus for printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards and printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10254', '9013.80.20', '- - Liquid crystal devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['10255', '9013.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9013.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10256', '9013.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 9013.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['10257', '9013.90.50', '- - Of goods of subheading 9013.80.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['10258', '9013.90.60', '- - Of goods of subheading 9013.80.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['10259', '9013.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.14', 'Direction finding compasses; other\nnavigational instruments and\nappliances.', '', ''], ['10260', '9014.10.00', '- Direction finding compasses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10261', '9014.20.00', '- Instruments and appliances for\naeronautical or space navigation (other\nthan compasses)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9014.80', '- Other instruments and appliances :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of a kind used on ships, incorporating\nor working in conjunction with an\nautomatic data processing machine :', '', ''], ['10262', '9014.80.11', '- - - Sonar or echo sounder', '0%', 'E0'], ['10263', '9014.80.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10264', '9014.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9014.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10265', '9014.90.10', '- - Of instruments and apparatus, of a kind\nused on ships, working in conjunction\nwith an automatic data processing\nmachine', '0%', 'E0'], ['10266', '9014.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.15', 'Surveying (including\nphotogrammetrical surveying),\nhydrographic, oceanographic,\nhydrological, meteorological or\ngeophysical instruments and', '', ''], ['', '', 'appliances, excluding compasses;\nrangefinders.', '', ''], ['', '9015.10', '- Rangefinders :', '', ''], ['10267', '9015.10.10', '- - Of a kind used in photography or\ncinematography', '0%', 'E0'], ['10268', '9015.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10269', '9015.20.00', '- Theodolites and tachymeters\n(tacheometers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['10270', '9015.30.00', '- Levels', '0%', 'E0'], ['10271', '9015.40.00', '- Photogrammetrical surveying\ninstruments and appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9015.80', '- Other instruments and appliances :', '', ''], ['10272', '9015.80.10', '- - Radio-sonde and radio wind apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10273', '9015.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10274', '9015.90.00', '- Parts and accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['10275', '9016.00.00', 'Balances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or\nbetter, with or without weights.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.17', 'Drawing, marking-out or mathematical\ncalculating instruments (for example,\ndrafting machines, pantographs,\nprotractors, drawing sets, slide rules,\ndisc calculators); instruments for\nmeasuring length, for use in the hand\n(for example, measuring rods and\ntapes, micrometers, callipers), not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', ''], ['', '9017.10', '- Drafting tables and machines, whether\nor not automatic :', '', ''], ['10276', '9017.10.10', '- - Plotters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10277', '9017.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9017.20', '- Other drawing, marking-out or\nmathematical calculating instruments :', '', ''], ['10278', '9017.20.10', '- - Rulers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10279', '9017.20.30', '- - Apparatus for the projection or\ndrawing of circuit patterns on sensitised\nsubstrates for the manufacture of printed\ncircuit boards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10280', '9017.20.40', '- - Photoplotters for the manufacture of\nprinted circuit boards/printed wiring\nboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10281', '9017.20.50', '- - Other plotters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10282', '9017.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10283', '9017.30.00', '- Micrometers, callipers and gauges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10284', '9017.80.00', '- Other instruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9017.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10285', '9017.90.20', '- - Parts and accessories of apparatus for\nthe projection or drawing of circuit\npatterns on sensitised substrates for the\nmanufacture of printed circuit', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'boards/printed wiring boards', '', ''], ['10286', '9017.90.30', '- - Parts and accessories of photoplotters\nfor the manufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10287', '9017.90.40', '- - Parts and accessories, including printed\ncircuit assemblies, of other plotters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10288', '9017.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.18', 'Instruments and appliances used in\nmedical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nsciences, including scintigraphic\napparatus, other electro-medical\napparatus and sight-testing\ninstruments.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Electro-diagnostic apparatus (including\napparatus for functional exploratory\nexamination or for checking physiological\nparameters) :', '', ''], ['10289', '9018.11.00', '- - Electro-cardiographs', '0%', 'E0'], ['10290', '9018.12.00', '- - Ultrasonic scanning apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10291', '9018.13.00', '- - Magnetic resonance imaging apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10292', '9018.14.00', '- - Scintigraphic apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10293', '9018.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10294', '9018.20.00', '- Ultra-violet or infra-red ray apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Syringes, needles, catheters, cannulae\nand the like :', '', ''], ['', '9018.31', '- - Syringes, with or without needles :', '', ''], ['10295', '9018.31.10', '- - - Disposable syringes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10296', '9018.31.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10297', '9018.32.00', '- - Tubular metal needles and needles for\nsutures', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9018.39', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10298', '9018.39.10', '- - - Catheters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10299', '9018.39.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other instruments and appliances, used\nin dental sciences :', '', ''], ['10300', '9018.41.00', '- - Dental drill engines, whether or not\ncombined on a single base with other\ndental equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['10301', '9018.49.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10302', '9018.50.00', '- Other ophthalmic instruments and\nappliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9018.90', '- Other instruments and appliances :', '', ''], ['10303', '9018.90.20', '- - Intravenous administration sets', '0%', 'E0'], ['10304', '9018.90.30', '- - Electronic instruments and appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['10305', '9018.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.19', 'Mechano-therapy appliances; massage\napparatus; psychological aptitude-\ntesting apparatus; ozone therapy,\noxygen therapy, aerosol therapy,\nartificial respiration or other\ntherapeutic respiration apparatus.', '', ''], ['', '9019.10', '- Mechano-therapy appliances; massage\napparatus; psychological aptitude-testing\napparatus :', '', ''], ['10306', '9019.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10307', '9019.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10308', '9019.20.00', '- Ozone therapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol\ntherapy, artificial respiration or other\ntherapeutic respiration apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10309', '9020.00.00', 'Other breathing appliances and gas\nmasks, excluding protective masks\nhaving neither mechanical parts nor\nreplaceable filters.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.21', 'Orthopaedic appliances, including\ncrutches, surgical belts and trusses;\nsplints and other fracture appliances;\nartificial parts of the body; hearing aids\nand other appliances which are worn or\ncarried, or implanted in the body, to\ncompensate for a defect or disability.', '', ''], ['10310', '9021.10.00', '- Orthopaedic or fracture appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Artificial teeth and dental fittings :', '', ''], ['10311', '9021.21.00', '- - Artificial teeth', '0%', 'E0'], ['10312', '9021.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other artificial parts of the body :', '', ''], ['10313', '9021.31.00', '- - Artificial joints', '0%', 'E0'], ['10314', '9021.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10315', '9021.40.00', '- Hearing aids, excluding parts and\naccessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['10316', '9021.50.00', '- Pacemakers for stimulating heart\nmuscles, excluding parts and accessories', '0%', 'E0'], ['10317', '9021.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.22', 'Apparatus based on the use of X-rays\nor of alpha, beta or gamma radiations,\nwhether or not for medical, surgical,\ndental or veterinary uses, including\nradiography or radiotherapy\napparatus, X-ray tubes and other X-ray\ngenerators, high tension generators,\ncontrol panels and desks, screens,\nexamination or treatment tables, chairs\nand the like.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Apparatus based on the use of X-rays,\nwhether or not for medical, surgical,\ndental or veterinary uses, including\nradiography or radiotherapy apparatus :', '', ''], ['10318', '9022.12.00', '- - Computed tomography apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10319', '9022.13.00', '- - Other, for dental uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10320', '9022.14.00', '- - Other, for medical, surgical or\nveterinary uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9022.19', '- - For other uses :', '', ''], ['10321', '9022.19.10', '- - - X-ray apparatus for the physical\ninspection of solder joints on printed\ncircuit board/printed wiring board\nassemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10322', '9022.19.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Apparatus based on the use of alpha,\nbeta or gamma radiations, whether or not\nfor medical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nuses, including radiography or\nradiotherapy apparatus :', '', ''], ['10323', '9022.21.00', '- - For medical, surgical, dental or\nveterinary uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10324', '9022.29.00', '- - For other uses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10325', '9022.30.00', '- X-ray tubes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9022.90', '- Other, including parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10326', '9022.90.10', '- - Parts and accessories of X-ray\napparatus for the physical inspection of\nsolder joints on printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10327', '9022.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10328', '9023.00.00', 'Instruments, apparatus and models,\ndesigned for demonstrational purposes\n(for example, in education or\nexhibitions), unsuitable for other uses.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.24', 'Machines and appliances for testing the\nhardness, strength, compressibility,\nelasticity or other mechanical\nproperties of materials (for example,\nmetals, wood, textiles, paper, plastics).', '', ''], ['', '9024.10', '- Machines and appliances for testing\nmetals :', '', ''], ['10329', '9024.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10330', '9024.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9024.80', '- Other machines and appliances :', '', ''], ['10331', '9024.80.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10332', '9024.80.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9024.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10333', '9024.90.10', '- - For electrically operated machines and\nappliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['10334', '9024.90.20', '- - For non-electrically operated machines\nand appliances', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.25', 'Hydrometers and similar floating\ninstruments, thermometers,\npyrometers, barometers, hygrometers\nand psychrometers, recording or not,\nand any combination of these\ninstruments.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Thermometers and pyrometers, not\ncombined with other instruments :', '', ''], ['10335', '9025.11.00', '- - Liquid-filled, for direct reading', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9025.19', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['10336', '9025.19.11', '- - - - Temperature gauges for motor\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10337', '9025.19.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10338', '9025.19.20', '- - - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9025.80', '- Other instruments :', '', ''], ['10339', '9025.80.20', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10340', '9025.80.30', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9025.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10341', '9025.90.10', '- - For electrically operated instruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['10342', '9025.90.20', '- - For non-electrically operated\ninstruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.26', 'Instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or checking the flow, level,\npressure or other variables of liquids or\ngases (for example, flow meters, level\ngauges, manometers, heat meters),\nexcluding instruments and apparatus of\nheading 90.14, 90.15, 90.28 or 90.32.', '', ''], ['', '9026.10', '- For measuring or checking the flow or\nlevel of liquids :', '', ''], ['10343', '9026.10.10', '- - Level gauges for motor vehicles,\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10344', '9026.10.20', '- - Level gauges for motor vehicles, not\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10345', '9026.10.30', '- - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10346', '9026.10.40', '- - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9026.20', '- For measuring or checking pressure :', '', ''], ['10347', '9026.20.10', '- - Pressure gauges for motor vehicles,\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10348', '9026.20.20', '- - Pressure gauges for motor vehicles, not\nelectrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10349', '9026.20.30', '- - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10350', '9026.20.40', '- - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9026.80', '- Other instruments or apparatus :', '', ''], ['10351', '9026.80.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10352', '9026.80.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9026.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10353', '9026.90.10', '- - For electrically operated instruments\nand apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10354', '9026.90.20', '- - For non-electrically operated\ninstruments and apparatus', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.27', 'Instruments and apparatus for physical\nor chemical analysis (for example,\npolarimeters, refractometers,\nspectrometers, gas or smoke analysis\napparatus); instruments and apparatus\nfor measuring or checking viscosity,\nporosity, expansion, surface tension or\nthe like; instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or checking quantities of\nheat, sound or light (including exposure', '', ''], ['', '', 'meters); microtomes.', '', ''], ['', '9027.10', '- Gas or smoke analysis apparatus :', '', ''], ['10355', '9027.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10356', '9027.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9027.20', '- Chromatographs and electrophoresis\ninstruments :', '', ''], ['10357', '9027.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10358', '9027.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9027.30', '- Spectrometers, spectrophotometers and\nspectrographs using optical radiations\n(UV, visible, IR) :', '', ''], ['10359', '9027.30.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10360', '9027.30.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9027.50', '- Other instruments and apparatus using\noptical radiations (UV, visible, IR) :', '', ''], ['10361', '9027.50.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10362', '9027.50.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9027.80', '- Other instruments and apparatus :', '', ''], ['10363', '9027.80.10', '- - Exposure meters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10364', '9027.80.30', '- - Other, electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10365', '9027.80.40', '- - Other, not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9027.90', '- Microtomes; parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10366', '9027.90.10', '- - Parts and accessories, including printed\ncircuit assemblies for products of heading\n90.27, other than for gas or smoke\nanalysis apparatus or microtomes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10367', '9027.90.91', '- - - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10368', '9027.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.28', 'Gas, liquid or electricity supply or\nproduction meters, including\ncalibrating meters therefor.', '', ''], ['', '9028.10', '- Gas meters :', '', ''], ['10369', '9028.10.10', '- - Gas meters of a kind mounted on gas\ncontainers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10370', '9028.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9028.20', '- Liquid meters :', '', ''], ['10371', '9028.20.20', '- - Water meters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10372', '9028.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9028.30', '- Electricity meters :', '', ''], ['10373', '9028.30.10', '- - Kilowatt-hour meters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10374', '9028.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9028.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10375', '9028.90.10', '- - Water meter housings or bodies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10376', '9028.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.29', 'Revolution counters, production\ncounters, taximeters, mileometers,\npedometers and the like; speed\nindicators and tachometers, other than\nthose of heading 90.14 or 90.15;\nstroboscopes.', '', ''], ['', '9029.10', '- Revolution counters, production\ncounters, taximeters, mileometers,\npedometers and the like :', '', ''], ['10377', '9029.10.20', '- - Taximeters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10378', '9029.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9029.20', '- Speed indicators and tachometers;\nstroboscopes :', '', ''], ['10379', '9029.20.10', '- - Speedometers for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10380', '9029.20.20', '- - Tachometers for motor vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10381', '9029.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9029.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10382', '9029.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 9029.10; of\nstroboscopes of subheading 9029.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['10383', '9029.90.20', '- - Of other goods of subheading 9029.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.30', 'Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers and\nother instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or checking electrical\nquantities, excluding meters of heading\n90.28; instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or detecting alpha, beta,\ngamma, X-ray, cosmic or other ionising\nradiations.', '', ''], ['10384', '9030.10.00', '- Instruments and apparatus for measuring\nor detecting ionising radiations', '0%', 'E0'], ['10385', '9030.20.00', '- Oscilloscopes and oscillographs', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other instruments and apparatus, for\nmeasuring or checking voltage, current,\nresistance or power :', '', ''], ['10386', '9030.31.00', '- - Multimeters without a recording device', '0%', 'E0'], ['10387', '9030.32.00', '- - Multimeters with a recording device', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9030.33', '- - Other, without a recording device :', '', ''], ['10388', '9030.33.10', '- - - Instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or checking voltage, current,\nresistance or power on printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10389', '9030.33.20', '- - - Impedance-measuring instruments\nand apparatus designed to provide visual\nand/or audible warning of electrostatic\ndischarge conditions that can damage\nelectronic circuits; apparatus for testing\nelectrostatic control equipment and\nelectrostatic grounding devices/fixtures', '0%', 'E0'], ['10390', '9030.33.30', '- - - Ammeters and voltmeters for motor\nvehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10391', '9030.33.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10392', '9030.39.00', '- - Other, with a recording device', '0%', 'E0'], ['10393', '9030.40.00', '- Other instruments and apparatus,\nspecially designed for\ntelecommunications (for example, cross-\ntalk meters, gain measuring instruments,\ndistortion factor meters, psophometers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other instruments and apparatus :', '', ''], ['', '9030.82', '- - For measuring or checking\nsemiconductor wafers or devices :', '', ''], ['10394', '9030.82.10', '- - - Wafer probers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10395', '9030.82.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9030.84', '- - Other, with a recording device :', '', ''], ['10396', '9030.84.10', '- - - Instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or checking electrical\nquantities on printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards and printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10397', '9030.84.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9030.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10398', '9030.89.10', '- - - Instruments and apparatus, without a\nrecording device, for measuring or\nchecking electrical quantities on printed\ncircuit boards/printed wiring boards and\nprinted circuit assemblies, other than\nthose covered within subheading 9030.39', '0%', 'E0'], ['10399', '9030.89.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9030.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10400', '9030.90.10', '- - Parts and accessories (including\nprinted circuit assemblies) of goods of\nsubheading 9030.40 or 9030.82', '0%', 'E0'], ['10401', '9030.90.30', '- - Parts and accessories of optical\ninstruments and appliances for measuring\nor checking printed circuit boards/printed\nwiring boards and printed circuit\nassemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10402', '9030.90.40', '- - Parts and accessories of other\ninstruments and apparatus for measuring\nor checking electrical quantities on\nprinted circuit boards/printed wiring\nboards and printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10403', '9030.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.31', 'Measuring or checking instruments,\nappliances and machines, not specified\nor included elsewhere in this Chapter;\nprofile projectors.', '', ''], ['', '9031.10', '- Machines for balancing mechanical\nparts :', '', ''], ['10404', '9031.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10405', '9031.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9031.20', '- Test benches :', '', ''], ['10406', '9031.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10407', '9031.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other optical instruments and', '', ''], ['', '', 'appliances :', '', ''], ['10408', '9031.41.00', '- - For inspecting semiconductor wafers\nor devices or for inspecting photomasks\nor reticles used in manufacturing\nsemiconductor devices', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9031.49', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10409', '9031.49.10', '- - - Optical instruments and appliances\nfor measuring surface particulate\ncontamination on semiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10410', '9031.49.20', '- - - Optical error verification and repair\napparatus for printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards and printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10411', '9031.49.30', '- - - Other optical instruments and\nappliances for measuring or checking\nprinted circuit boards/printed wiring\nboards and printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10412', '9031.49.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9031.80', '- Other instruments, appliances and\nmachines :', '', ''], ['10413', '9031.80.10', '- - Cable testers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10414', '9031.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9031.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For electrically operated equipment :', '', ''], ['10415', '9031.90.11', '- - - Parts and accessories including\nprinted circuit assemblies of optical\ninstruments and appliances for inspecting\nsemiconductor wafers or devices or for\ninspecting masks, photomasks or reticles\nused in manufacturing semiconductor\ndevices; parts and accessories of optical\ninstruments and appliances for measuring\nsurface particulate contamination on\nsemiconductor wafers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10416', '9031.90.12', '- - - Of optical error verification and\nrepair apparatus for printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards and printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10417', '9031.90.13', '- - - Of other optical instruments and\nappliances for measuring or checking\nprinted circuit boards/printed wiring\nboards and printed circuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['10418', '9031.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10419', '9031.90.20', '- - For non-electrically operated\nequipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.32', 'Automatic regulating or controlling\ninstruments and apparatus.', '', ''], ['', '9032.10', '- Thermostats :', '', ''], ['10420', '9032.10.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10421', '9032.10.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9032.20', '- Manostats :', '', ''], ['10422', '9032.20.10', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10423', '9032.20.20', '- - Not electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other instruments and apparatus :', '', ''], ['10424', '9032.81.00', '- - Hydraulic or pneumatic', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9032.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10425', '9032.89.10', '- - - Instruments and apparatus\nincorporating or working in conjunction\nwith an automatic data processing\nmachine, for automatically regulating or\ncontrolling the propulsion, ballast or\ncargo handling systems of ships', '0%', 'E0'], ['10426', '9032.89.20', '- - - Automatic instruments and apparatus\nfor regulating or controlling chemical or\nelectrochemical solutions in the\nmanufacture of printed circuit\nboards/printed wiring boards or printed\ncircuit assemblies', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other, electrically operated :', '', ''], ['10427', '9032.89.31', '- - - - Automatic regulating voltage units\n(stabilisers)', '0%', 'E0'], ['10428', '9032.89.39', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10429', '9032.89.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9032.90', '- Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10430', '9032.90.10', '- - Of goods of subheading 9032.89.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['10431', '9032.90.20', '- - Of goods of subheading 9032.89.20', '0%', 'E0'], ['10432', '9032.90.30', '- - Of other electrically operated goods', '0%', 'E0'], ['10433', '9032.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '90.33', 'Parts and accessories (not specified or\nincluded elsewhere in this Chapter) for\nmachines, appliances, instruments or\napparatus of Chapter 90.', '', ''], ['10434', '9033.00.10', '- For electrically operated equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['10435', '9033.00.20', '- For non-electrically operated equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.01', 'Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and\nother watches, including stop-watches,\nwith case of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Wrist-watches, electrically operated,\nwhether or not incorporating a stop-watch\nfacility :', '', ''], ['10436', '9101.11.00', '- - With mechanical display only', '0%', 'E0'], ['10437', '9101.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other wrist-watches, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility :', '', ''], ['10438', '9101.21.00', '- - With automatic winding', '0%', 'E0'], ['10439', '9101.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10440', '9101.91.00', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10441', '9101.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.02', 'Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and\nother watches, including stop-watches,\nother than those of heading 91.01.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Wrist-watches, electrically operated,\nwhether or not incorporating a stop-watch', '', ''], ['', '', 'facility :', '', ''], ['10442', '9102.11.00', '- - With mechanical display only', '0%', 'E0'], ['10443', '9102.12.00', '- - With opto-electronic display only', '0%', 'E0'], ['10444', '9102.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other wrist-watches, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility :', '', ''], ['10445', '9102.21.00', '- - With automatic winding', '0%', 'E0'], ['10446', '9102.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10447', '9102.91.00', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10448', '9102.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.03', 'Clocks with watch movements,\nexcluding clocks of heading 91.04.', '', ''], ['10449', '9103.10.00', '- Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10450', '9103.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.04', 'Instrument panel clocks and clocks of a\nsimilar type for vehicles, aircraft,\nspacecraft or vessels.', '', ''], ['10451', '9104.00.10', '- For vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10452', '9104.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.05', 'Other clocks.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Alarm clocks :', '', ''], ['10453', '9105.11.00', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10454', '9105.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Wall clocks :', '', ''], ['10455', '9105.21.00', '- - Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10456', '9105.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '9105.91', '- - Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['10457', '9105.91.10', '- - - Marine chronometers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10458', '9105.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9105.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10459', '9105.99.10', '- - - Marine chronometers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10460', '9105.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.06', 'Time of day recording apparatus and\napparatus for measuring, recording or\notherwise indicating intervals of time,\nwith clock or watch movement or with\nsynchronous motor (for example, time-\nregisters, time-recorders).', '', ''], ['10461', '9106.10.00', '- Time-registers; time-recorders', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9106.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10462', '9106.90.10', '- - Parking meters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10463', '9106.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10464', '9107.00.00', 'Time switches with clock or watch\nmovement or with synchronous motor.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.08', 'Watch movements, complete and\nassembled.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Electrically operated :', '', ''], ['10465', '9108.11.00', '- - With mechanical display only or with a\ndevice to which a mechanical display can\nbe incorporated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10466', '9108.12.00', '- - With opto-electronic display only', '0%', 'E0'], ['10467', '9108.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10468', '9108.20.00', '- With automatic winding', '0%', 'E0'], ['10469', '9108.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.09', 'Clock movements, complete and\nassembled.', '', ''], ['10470', '9109.10.00', '- Electrically operated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10471', '9109.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.10', 'Complete watch or clock movements,\nunassembled or partly assembled\n(movement sets); incomplete watch or\nclock movements, assembled; rough\nwatch or clock movements.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Of watches :', '', ''], ['10472', '9110.11.00', '- - Complete movements, unassembled or\npartly assembled (movement sets)', '0%', 'E0'], ['10473', '9110.12.00', '- - Incomplete movements, assembled', '0%', 'E0'], ['10474', '9110.19.00', '- - Rough movements', '0%', 'E0'], ['10475', '9110.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.11', 'Watch cases and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['10476', '9111.10.00', '- Cases of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10477', '9111.20.00', '- Cases of base metal, whether or not\ngold- or silver-plated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10478', '9111.80.00', '- Other cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['10479', '9111.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.12', 'Clock cases and cases of a similar type\nfor other goods of this Chapter, and\nparts thereof.', '', ''], ['10480', '9112.20.00', '- Cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['10481', '9112.90.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.13', 'Watch straps, watch bands and watch\nbracelets, and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['10482', '9113.10.00', '- Of precious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10483', '9113.20.00', '- Of base metal, whether or not gold- or\nsilver-plated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10484', '9113.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '91.14', 'Other clock or watch parts.', '', ''], ['10485', '9114.10.00', '- Springs, including hair-springs', '0%', 'E0'], ['10486', '9114.30.00', '- Dials', '0%', 'E0'], ['10487', '9114.40.00', '- Plates and bridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10488', '9114.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.01', 'Pianos, including automatic pianos;\nharpsichords and other keyboard\nstringed instruments.', '', ''], ['10489', '9201.10.00', '- Upright pianos', '0%', 'E0'], ['10490', '9201.20.00', '- Grand pianos', '0%', 'E0'], ['10491', '9201.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.02', 'Other string musical instruments (for\nexample, guitars, violins, harps).', '', ''], ['10492', '9202.10.00', '- Played with a bow', '0%', 'E0'], ['10493', '9202.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.05', 'Wind musical instruments (for\nexample, keyboard pipe organs,\naccordions, clarinets, trumpets,\nbagpipes), other than fairground\norgans and mechanical street organs.', '', ''], ['10494', '9205.10.00', '- Brass-wind instruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9205.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10495', '9205.90.10', '- - Keyboard pipe organs; harmoniums\nand similar keyboard instruments with\nfree metal reeds', '0%', 'E0'], ['10496', '9205.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10497', '9206.00.00', 'Percussion musical instruments (for\nexample, drums, xylophones, cymbals,\ncastanets, maracas).', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.07', 'Musical instruments, the sound of\nwhich is produced, or must be\namplified, electrically (for example,\norgans, guitars, accordions).', '', ''], ['10498', '9207.10.00', '- Keyboard instruments, other than\naccordions', '0%', 'E0'], ['10499', '9207.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.08', 'Musical boxes, fairground organs,\nmechanical street organs, mechanical\nsinging birds, musical saws and other\nmusical instruments not falling within\nany other heading of this Chapter;\ndecoy calls of all kinds; whistles, call\nhorns and other mouth-blown sound\nsignalling instruments.', '', ''], ['10500', '9208.10.00', '- Musical boxes', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9208.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10501', '9208.90.10', '- - Decoy calls, whistles, call horns and\nother mouth-blown sound signalling\ninstruments', '0%', 'E0'], ['10502', '9208.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '92.09', 'Parts (for example, mechanisms for\nmusical boxes) and accessories (for\nexample, cards, discs and rolls for\nmechanical instruments) of musical\ninstruments; metronomes, tuning forks\nand pitch pipes of all kinds.', '', ''], ['10503', '9209.30.00', '- Musical instrument strings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '9209.91', '- - Parts and accessories for pianos :', '', ''], ['10504', '9209.91.10', '- - - Strung backs, keyboards and metal\nframes for upright pianos', '0%', 'E0'], ['10505', '9209.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10506', '9209.92.00', '- - Parts and accessories for the musical\ninstruments of heading 92.02', '0%', 'E0'], ['10507', '9209.94.00', '- - Parts and accessories for the musical\ninstruments of heading 92.07', '0%', 'E0'], ['10508', '9209.99.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '93.01', 'Military weapons, other than revolvers,\npistols and the arms of heading 93.07.', '', ''], ['10509', '9301.10.00', '- Artillery weapons (for example, guns,\nhowitzers and mortars)', '0%', 'E0'], ['10510', '9301.20.00', '- Rocket launchers; flame-throwers;\ngrenade launchers; torpedo tubes and\nsimilar projectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10511', '9301.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10512', '9302.00.00', 'Revolvers and pistols, other than those\nof heading 93.03 or 93.04.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '93.03', 'Other firearms and similar devices\nwhich operate by the firing of an\nexplosive charge (for example, sporting\nshotguns and rifles, muzzle-loading\nfirearms, Very pistols and other devices\ndesigned to project only signal flares,\npistols and revolvers for firing blank\nammunition, captive-bolt humane\nkillers, line-throwing guns).', '', ''], ['10513', '9303.10.00', '- Muzzle-loading firearms', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9303.20', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-\nshooting shotguns, including combination\nshotgun-rifles :', '', ''], ['10514', '9303.20.10', '- - Hunting shotguns', '0%', 'E0'], ['10515', '9303.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9303.30', '- Other sporting, hunting or target-\nshooting rifles :', '', ''], ['10516', '9303.30.10', '- - Hunting rifles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10517', '9303.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10518', '9303.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '93.04', 'Other arms (for example, spring, air or\ngas guns and pistols, truncheons),\nexcluding those of heading 93.07.', '', ''], ['10519', '9304.00.10', '- Air guns, operating at a pressure of less\nthan 7 kgf/cm2', '0%', 'E0'], ['10520', '9304.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '93.05', 'Parts and accessories of articles of\nheadings 93.01 to 93.04.', '', ''], ['10521', '9305.10.00', '- Of revolvers or pistols', '0%', 'E0'], ['10522', '9305.20.00', '- Of shotguns or rifles of heading 93.03', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '9305.91', '- - Of military weapons of heading 93.01 :', '', ''], ['10523', '9305.91.10', '- - - Of leather or of textile material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10524', '9305.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9305.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Of goods of subheading 9304.00.90 :', '', ''], ['10525', '9305.99.11', '- - - - Of leather or of textile material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10526', '9305.99.19', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10527', '9305.99.91', '- - - - Of leather or of textile material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10528', '9305.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '93.06', 'Bombs, grenades, torpedoes, mines,\nmissiles and similar munitions of war\nand parts thereof; cartridges and other\nammunition and projectiles and parts\nthereof, including shot and cartridge\nwads.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Shotgun cartridges and parts thereof; air\ngun pellets :', '', ''], ['10529', '9306.21.00', '- - Cartridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10530', '9306.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9306.30', '- Other cartridges and parts thereof :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - For revolvers and pistols of heading\n93.02 :', '', ''], ['10531', '9306.30.11', '- - - .22 calibre cartridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10532', '9306.30.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10533', '9306.30.20', '- - Cartridges for riveting or similar tools\nor for captive-bolt humane killers; parts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10534', '9306.30.30', '- - For sporting, hunting or target-\nshooting guns, rifles and carbines, other\nthan shotguns', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10535', '9306.30.91', '- - - .22 calibre cartridges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10536', '9306.30.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10537', '9306.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10538', '9307.00.00', 'Swords, cutlasses, bayonets, lances and\nsimilar arms and parts thereof and\nscabbards and sheaths therefor.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.01', 'Seats (other than those of heading\n94.02), whether or not convertible into\nbeds, and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['10539', '9401.10.00', '- Seats of a kind used for aircraft', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9401.20', '- Seats of a kind used for motor vehicles :', '', ''], ['10540', '9401.20.10', '- - Of a kind used for vehicles of heading\n87.02, 87.03 or 87.04', '0%', 'E0'], ['10541', '9401.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10542', '9401.30.00', '- Swivel seats with variable height\nadjustment', '0%', 'E0'], ['10543', '9401.40.00', '- Seats other than garden seats or camping\nequipment, convertible into beds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Seats of cane, osier, bamboo or similar\nmaterials :', '', ''], ['10544', '9401.52.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['10545', '9401.53.00', '- - Of rattan', '0%', 'E0'], ['10546', '9401.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other seats, with wooden frames :', '', ''], ['10547', '9401.61.00', '- - Upholstered', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9401.69', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10548', '9401.69.10', '- - - With backrest and/or the seat made of\nrattan', '0%', 'E0'], ['10549', '9401.69.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other seats, with metal frames :', '', ''], ['10550', '9401.71.00', '- - Upholstered', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9401.79', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10551', '9401.79.10', '- - - With backrest and/or the seat made of\nrattan', '0%', 'E0'], ['10552', '9401.79.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10553', '9401.80.00', '- Other seats', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9401.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['10554', '9401.90.10', '- - Of seats of subheading 9401.10.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Of seats of subheading 9401.20 :', '', ''], ['10555', '9401.90.31', '- - - Headrest stiffeners for seats of\nsubheading 9401.20.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['10556', '9401.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10557', '9401.90.40', '- - Of seats of subheading 9401.30.00', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10558', '9401.90.92', '- - - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10559', '9401.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.02', 'Medical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nfurniture (for example, operating\ntables, examination tables, hospital\nbeds with mechanical fittings, dentists’\nchairs); barbers’ chairs and similar\nchairs, having rotating as well as both\nreclining and elevating movements;\nparts of the foregoing articles.', '', ''], ['', '9402.10', '- Dentists’, barbers’ or similar chairs and\nparts thereof :', '', ''], ['10560', '9402.10.10', "- - Dentists' chairs and parts thereof", '0%', 'E0'], ['10561', '9402.10.30', '- - Barbers’ or similar chairs and parts\nthereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9402.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10562', '9402.90.10', '- - Furniture specially designed for\nmedical, surgical or veterinary purposes\nand parts thereof', '0%', 'E0'], ['10563', '9402.90.20', '- - Commodes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10564', '9402.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.03', 'Other furniture and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['10565', '9403.10.00', '- Metal furniture of a kind used in offices', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9403.20', '- Other metal furniture :', '', ''], ['10566', '9403.20.10', '- - Fume cupboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10567', '9403.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10568', '9403.30.00', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in\noffices', '0%', 'E0'], ['10569', '9403.40.00', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the\nkitchen', '0%', 'E0'], ['10570', '9403.50.00', '- Wooden furniture of a kind used in the\nbedroom', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9403.60', '- Other wooden furniture :', '', ''], ['10571', '9403.60.10', '- - Fume cupboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10572', '9403.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9403.70', '- Furniture of plastics :', '', ''], ['10573', '9403.70.10', '- - Baby walkers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10574', '9403.70.20', '- - Fume cupboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10575', '9403.70.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Furniture of other materials, including\ncane, osier, bamboo or similar materials :', '', ''], ['10576', '9403.82.00', '- - Of bamboo', '0%', 'E0'], ['10577', '9403.83.00', '- - Of rattan', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9403.89', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10578', '9403.89.10', '- - - Fume cupboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10579', '9403.89.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9403.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['10580', '9403.90.10', '- - Of subheading 9403.70.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['10581', '9403.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.04', 'Mattress supports; articles of bedding\nand similar furnishing (for example,\nmattresses, quilts, eiderdowns,\ncushions, pouffes and pillows) fitted\nwith springs or stuffed or internally\nfitted with any material or of cellular\nrubber or plastics, whether or not\ncovered.', '', ''], ['10582', '9404.10.00', '- Mattress supports', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Mattresses :', '', ''], ['', '9404.21', '- - Of cellular rubber or plastics, whether\nor not covered :', '', ''], ['10583', '9404.21.10', '- - - Of cellular rubber, whether or not\ncovered', '0%', 'E0'], ['10584', '9404.21.20', '- - - Of cellular plastics, whether or not\ncovered', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9404.29', '- - Of other materials :', '', ''], ['10585', '9404.29.10', '- - - Spring mattresses', '0%', 'E0'], ['10586', '9404.29.20', '- - - Other, hyperthermia/hypothermia\ntype', '0%', 'E0'], ['10587', '9404.29.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10588', '9404.30.00', '- Sleeping bags', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9404.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10589', '9404.90.10', '- - Quilts, bedspreads and mattress-\nprotectors', '0%', 'E0'], ['10590', '9404.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.05', 'Lamps and lighting fittings including\nsearchlights and spotlights and parts\nthereof, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; illuminated signs, illuminated\nname-plates and the like, having a\npermanently fixed light source, and\nparts thereof not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', ''], ['', '9405.10', '- Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or\nwall lighting fittings, excluding those of a\nkind used for lighting public open spaces', '', ''], ['', '', 'or thoroughfares :', '', ''], ['10591', '9405.10.20', '- - Lamps for operating rooms', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10592', '9405.10.91', '- - - Spotlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10593', '9405.10.92', '- - - Fluorescent lamps and lighting\nfittings', '0%', 'E0'], ['10594', '9405.10.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.20', '- Electric table, desk, bedside or floor-\nstanding lamps :', '', ''], ['10595', '9405.20.10', '- - Lamps for operating rooms', '0%', 'E0'], ['10596', '9405.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10597', '9405.30.00', '- Lighting sets of a kind used for\nChristmas trees', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.40', '- Other electric lamps and lighting\nfittings :', '', ''], ['10598', '9405.40.20', '- - Searchlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10599', '9405.40.40', '- - Other spotlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10600', '9405.40.50', '- - Other, of a kind used for lighting\npublic open spaces or thoroughfares', '0%', 'E0'], ['10601', '9405.40.60', '- - Other exterior lighting', '0%', 'E0'], ['10602', '9405.40.70', '- - Non-flashing aerodrome beacons;\nlamps for railway rolling stock,\nlocomotives, aircraft, ships or lighthouses,\nof base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10603', '9405.40.80', '- - Pilot lamps with fittings for electro-\nthermic domestic appliances of heading\n85.16', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10604', '9405.40.91', '- - - Fibre-optic headband lamps of a kind\ndesigned for medical use', '0%', 'E0'], ['10605', '9405.40.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.50', '- Non-electrical lamps and lighting\nfittings :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Of oil-burning type :', '', ''], ['10606', '9405.50.11', '- - - Of brass of a kind used for religious\nrites', '0%', 'E0'], ['10607', '9405.50.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10608', '9405.50.40', '- - Hurricane lamps', '0%', 'E0'], ['10609', '9405.50.50', "- - Miners' lamps and quarrymen's lamps", '0%', 'E0'], ['10610', '9405.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.60', '- Illuminated signs, illuminated name-\nplates and the like :', '', ''], ['10611', '9405.60.10', '- - Warning signs, street name signs, road\nand traffic signs', '0%', 'E0'], ['10612', '9405.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['', '9405.91', '- - Of glass :', '', ''], ['10613', '9405.91.10', '- - - For lamps for operating rooms', '0%', 'E0'], ['10614', '9405.91.20', '- - - For spotlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10615', '9405.91.40', '- - - Globes or chimneys', '0%', 'E0'], ['10616', '9405.91.50', '- - - For searchlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10617', '9405.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.92', '- - Of plastics :', '', ''], ['10618', '9405.92.10', '- - - For lamps for operating rooms', '0%', 'E0'], ['10619', '9405.92.20', '- - - For spotlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10620', '9405.92.30', '- - - For searchlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10621', '9405.92.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9405.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10622', '9405.99.10', '- - - Lampshades of textile material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10623', '9405.99.20', '- - - Lampshades of other material', '0%', 'E0'], ['10624', '9405.99.30', '- - - Of lamps of subheading 9405.50.11\nor 9405.50.19', '0%', 'E0'], ['10625', '9405.99.40', '- - - For searchlights or spotlights', '0%', 'E0'], ['10626', '9405.99.50', '- - - Other, of ceramic or of metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10627', '9405.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '94.06', 'Prefabricated buildings.', '', ''], ['', '9406.10', '- Of wood :', '', ''], ['10628', '9406.10.10', '- - Greenhouses fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment', '0%', 'E0'], ['10629', '9406.10.90', '- - Other', '8%', 'E10'], ['', '9406.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Greenhouses fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment :', '', ''], ['10630', '9406.90.11', '- - - Of iron or of steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['10631', '9406.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10632', '9406.90.20', '- - Other, of plastics or of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['10633', '9406.90.30', '- - Other, of iron or of steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['10634', '9406.90.40', '- - Other, of cement, of concrete or of\nartificial stone', '0%', 'E0'], ['10635', '9406.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.03', 'Tricycles, scooters, pedal cars and\nsimilar wheeled toys; dolls\' carriages;\ndolls; other toys; reduced-size ("scale")\nmodels and similar recreational models,\nworking or not; puzzles of all kinds.', '', ''], ['10636', '9503.00.10', "- Tricycles, scooters, pedal cars and\nsimilar wheeled toys; dolls' carriages", '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Dolls :', '', ''], ['10637', '9503.00.21', '- - Dolls, whether or not dressed', '5%', 'E10'], ['', '', '- - Parts and accessories :', '', ''], ['10638', '9503.00.22', '- - - Garments and garment accessories;\nfootwear and headgear', '0%', 'E0'], ['10639', '9503.00.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10640', '9503.00.30', '- Electric trains, including tracks, signals\nand other accessories therefor', '0%', 'E0'], ['10641', '9503.00.40', '- Reduced size ("scale") models and\nsimilar recreational models, working or\nnot', '0%', 'E0'], ['10642', '9503.00.50', '- Other construction sets and\nconstructional toys, of materials other\nthan plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10643', '9503.00.60', '- Stuffed toys representing animals or\nnon-human creatures', '0%', 'E0'], ['10644', '9503.00.70', '- Puzzles of all kinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10645', '9503.00.91', '- - Numerical, alphabetical or animal\nblocks or cut-outs; word builder sets;\nword making and talking sets; toy printing\nsets; toy counting frames (abaci); toy\nsewing machines; toy typewriters', '0%', 'E0'], ['10646', '9503.00.92', '- - Skipping ropes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10647', '9503.00.93', '- - Marbles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10648', '9503.00.94', '- - Other toys, of rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['10649', '9503.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.04', 'Video game consoles and machines,\narticles for funfair, table or parlour\ngames, including pintables, billiards,\nspecial tables for casino games and\nautomatic bowling alley equipment.', '', ''], ['', '9504.20', '- Articles and accessories for billiards of\nall kinds :', '', ''], ['10650', '9504.20.20', '- - Tables for billiards of all kinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['10651', '9504.20.30', '- - Billiard chalks', '0%', 'E0'], ['10652', '9504.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9504.30', '- Other games, operated by coins,\nbanknotes, bank cards, tokens or by any\nother means of payment, other than\nautomatic bowling alley equipment :', '', ''], ['10653', '9504.30.10', '- - Pintables or slot machines', '0%', 'E0'], ['10654', '9504.30.20', '- - Parts of wood, paper or plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10655', '9504.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10656', '9504.40.00', '- Playing cards', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9504.50', '- Video game consoles and machines,\nother than those of subheading 9504.30 :', '', ''], ['10657', '9504.50.10', '- - Of a kind used with a television\nreceiver', '0%', 'E0'], ['10658', '9504.50.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9504.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10659', '9504.90.10', '- - Bowling requisites of all kinds', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Darts and parts and accessories\ntherefor :', '', ''], ['10660', '9504.90.21', '- - - Of wood, of paper or of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10661', '9504.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Gambling equipment and\nparaphernalia :', '', ''], ['10662', '9504.90.32', '- - - Tables designed for use with casino\ngames, of wood or of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10663', '9504.90.33', '- - - Other tables designed for use with\ncasino games', '0%', 'E0'], ['10664', '9504.90.34', '- - - Mahjong tiles, of wood or of paper or\nof plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10665', '9504.90.35', '- - - Other Mahjong tiles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10666', '9504.90.36', '- - - Other, of wood, of paper or of', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'plastics', '', ''], ['10667', '9504.90.39', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - - Tables designed for games :', '', ''], ['10668', '9504.90.92', '- - - - Of wood or of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10669', '9504.90.93', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10670', '9504.90.95', '- - - - Of wood, of paper or of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10671', '9504.90.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.05', 'Festive, carnival or other entertainment\narticles, including conjuring tricks and\nnovelty jokes.', '', ''], ['10672', '9505.10.00', '- Articles for Christmas festivities', '0%', 'E0'], ['10673', '9505.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.06', 'Articles and equipment for general\nphysical exercise, gymnastics, athletics,\nother sports (including table-tennis) or\noutdoor games, not specified or\nincluded elsewhere in this Chapter;\nswimming pools and paddling pools.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Snow-skis and other snow-ski\nequipment :', '', ''], ['10674', '9506.11.00', '- - Skis', '0%', 'E0'], ['10675', '9506.12.00', '- - Ski-fastenings (ski-bindings)', '0%', 'E0'], ['10676', '9506.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Water-skis, surf-boards, sailboards and\nother water-sport equipment :', '', ''], ['10677', '9506.21.00', '- - Sailboards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10678', '9506.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Golf clubs and other golf equipment :', '', ''], ['10679', '9506.31.00', '- - Clubs, complete', '0%', 'E0'], ['10680', '9506.32.00', '- - Balls', '0%', 'E0'], ['10681', '9506.39.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9506.40', '- Articles and equipment for table-tennis :', '', ''], ['10682', '9506.40.10', '- - Tables', '0%', 'E0'], ['10683', '9506.40.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tennis, badminton or similar rackets,\nwhether or not strung :', '', ''], ['10684', '9506.51.00', '- - Lawn-tennis rackets, whether or not\nstrung', '0%', 'E0'], ['10685', '9506.59.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Balls, other than golf balls and table-\ntennis balls :', '', ''], ['10686', '9506.61.00', '- - Lawn-tennis balls', '0%', 'E0'], ['10687', '9506.62.00', '- - Inflatable', '5%', 'E10'], ['10688', '9506.69.00', '- - Other', '5%', 'EX'], ['10689', '9506.70.00', '- Ice skates and roller skates, including\nskating boots with skates attached', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10690', '9506.91.00', '- - Articles and equipment for general\nphysical exercise, gymnastics or athletics', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9506.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10691', '9506.99.10', '- - - Bows (including crossbows) and\narrows', '0%', 'E0'], ['10692', '9506.99.20', '- - - Nets, cricket pads and shin guards', '0%', 'E0'], ['10693', '9506.99.30', '- - - Shuttlecocks', '0%', 'E0'], ['10694', '9506.99.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.07', 'Fishing rods, fish-hooks and other line\nfishing tackle; fish landing nets,\nbutterfly nets and similar nets; decoy\n“birds” (other than those of heading\n92.08 or 97.05) and similar hunting or\nshooting requisites.', '', ''], ['10695', '9507.10.00', '- Fishing rods', '0%', 'E0'], ['10696', '9507.20.00', '- Fish-hooks, whether or not snelled', '0%', 'E0'], ['10697', '9507.30.00', '- Fishing reels', '0%', 'E0'], ['10698', '9507.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '95.08', 'Roundabouts, swings, shooting galleries\nand other fairground amusements;\ntravelling circuses and travelling\nmenageries; travelling theatres.', '', ''], ['10699', '9508.10.00', '- Travelling circuses and travelling\nmenageries', '0%', 'E0'], ['10700', '9508.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.01', 'Worked ivory, bone, tortoise-shell,\nhorn, antlers, coral, mother-of-pearl\nand other animal carving material, and\narticles of these materials (including\narticles obtained by moulding).', '', ''], ['', '9601.10', '- Worked ivory and articles of ivory :', '', ''], ['10701', '9601.10.10', '- - Cigar or cigarette cases, tobacco jars;\nornamental articles', '5%', 'E0'], ['10702', '9601.10.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '9601.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Worked mother-of-pearl or tortoise-\nshell and articles of the foregoing :', '', ''], ['10703', '9601.90.11', '- - - Cigar or cigarette cases, tobacco jars;\nornamental articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10704', '9601.90.12', '- - - Pearl Nucleus', '0%', 'E0'], ['10705', '9601.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10706', '9601.90.90', '- - Other', '5%', 'E0'], ['', '96.02', 'Worked vegetable or mineral carving\nmaterial and articles of these materials;\nmoulded or carved articles of wax, of\nstearin, of natural gums or natural\nresins or of modelling pastes, and other\nmoulded or carved articles, not\nelsewhere specified or included;\nworked, unhardened gelatin (except\ngelatin of heading 35.03) and articles of\nunhardened gelatin.', '', ''], ['10707', '9602.00.10', '- Gelatin capsules for pharmaceutical\nproducts', '0%', 'E0'], ['10708', '9602.00.20', '- Cigar or cigarette cases, tobacco jars;\nornamental articles', '0%', 'E0'], ['10709', '9602.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.03', 'Brooms, brushes (including brushes\nconstituting parts of machines,\nappliances or vehicles), hand-operated\nmechanical floor sweepers, not\nmotorised, mops and feather dusters;\nprepared knots and tufts for broom or\nbrush making; paint pads and rollers;\nsqueegees (other than roller squeegees).', '', ''], ['', '9603.10', '- Brooms and brushes, consisting of twigs\nor other vegetable materials bound\ntogether, with or without handles :', '', ''], ['10710', '9603.10.10', '- - Brushes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10711', '9603.10.20', '- - Brooms', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Tooth brushes, shaving brushes, hair\nbrushes, nail brushes, eyelash brushes and\nother toilet brushes for use on the person,\nincluding such brushes constituting parts\nof appliances :', '', ''], ['10712', '9603.21.00', '- - Tooth brushes, including dental-plate\nbrushes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10713', '9603.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10714', '9603.30.00', '- Artists’ brushes, writing brushes and\nsimilar brushes for the application of\ncosmetics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10715', '9603.40.00', '- Paint, distemper, varnish or similar\nbrushes (other than brushes of subheading\n9603.30); paint pads and rollers', '0%', 'E0'], ['10716', '9603.50.00', '- Other brushes constituting parts of\nmachines, appliances or vehicles', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9603.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10717', '9603.90.10', '- - Prepared knots and tufts for broom or\nbrush making', '0%', 'E0'], ['10718', '9603.90.20', '- - Hand-operated mechanical floor\nsweepers, not motorised', '0%', 'E0'], ['10719', '9603.90.40', '- - Other brushes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10720', '9603.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.04', 'Hand sieves and hand riddles.', '', ''], ['10721', '9604.00.10', '- Of metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10722', '9604.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10723', '9605.00.00', 'Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing or\nshoe or clothes cleaning.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.06', 'Buttons, press-fasteners, snap-fasteners\nand press-studs, button moulds and\nother parts of these articles; button\nblanks.', '', ''], ['', '9606.10', '- Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and\npress-studs and parts therefor :', '', ''], ['10724', '9606.10.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10725', '9606.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Buttons :', '', ''], ['10726', '9606.21.00', '- - Of plastics, not covered with textile\nmaterial', '0%', 'E0'], ['10727', '9606.22.00', '- - Of base metal, not covered with textile\nmaterial', '0%', 'E0'], ['10728', '9606.29.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9606.30', '- Button moulds and other parts of\nbuttons; button blanks :', '', ''], ['10729', '9606.30.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10730', '9606.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.07', 'Slide fasteners and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Slide fasteners :', '', ''], ['10731', '9607.11.00', '- - Fitted with chain scoops of base metal', '0%', 'E0'], ['10732', '9607.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10733', '9607.20.00', '- Parts', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.08', 'Ball point pens; felt tipped and other\nporous-tipped pens and markers;\nfountain pens, stylograph pens and\nother pens; duplicating stylos;\npropelling or sliding pencils; pen-\nholders, pencil-holders and similar\nholders; parts (including caps and\nclips) of the foregoing articles, other\nthan those of heading 96.09.', '', ''], ['', '9608.10', '- Ball point pens :', '', ''], ['10734', '9608.10.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10735', '9608.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10736', '9608.20.00', '- Felt tipped and other porous-tipped pens\nand markers', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9608.30', '- Fountain pens, stylograph pens and\nother pens :', '', ''], ['10737', '9608.30.20', '- - Fountain pens', '0%', 'E0'], ['10738', '9608.30.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10739', '9608.40.00', '- Propelling or sliding pencils', '0%', 'E0'], ['10740', '9608.50.00', '- Sets of articles from two or more of the\nforegoing subheadings', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9608.60', '- Refills for ball point pens, comprising\nthe ball point and ink-reservoir :', '', ''], ['10741', '9608.60.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10742', '9608.60.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '9608.91', '- - Pen nibs and nib points :', '', ''], ['10743', '9608.91.10', '- - - Of gold or gold-plated', '0%', 'E0'], ['10744', '9608.91.90', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9608.99', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10745', '9608.99.10', '- - - Duplicating stylos', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - - Other :', '', ''], ['10746', '9608.99.91', '- - - - Parts of ball point pens, of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10747', '9608.99.99', '- - - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.09', 'Pencils (other than pencils of heading\n96.08), crayons, pencil leads, pastels,\ndrawing charcoals, writing or drawing', '', ''], ['', '', 'chalks and tailors’ chalks.', '', ''], ['', '9609.10', '- Pencils and crayons, with lead encased\nin a rigid sheath :', '', ''], ['10748', '9609.10.10', '- - Black pencils', '0%', 'E0'], ['10749', '9609.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10750', '9609.20.00', '- Pencil leads, black or coloured', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9609.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10751', '9609.90.10', '- - Slate pencils for school slates', '0%', 'E0'], ['10752', '9609.90.30', '- - Pencils and crayons other than those of\nsubheading 9609.10', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10753', '9609.90.91', '- - - Writing or drawing chalks', '0%', 'E0'], ['10754', '9609.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.10', 'Slates and boards, with writing or\ndrawing surfaces, whether or not\nframed.', '', ''], ['10755', '9610.00.10', '- School slates', '0%', 'E0'], ['10756', '9610.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10757', '9611.00.00', 'Date, sealing or numbering stamps, and\nthe like (including devices for printing\nor embossing labels), designed for\noperating in the hand; hand-operated\ncomposing sticks and hand printing\nsets incorporating such composing\nsticks.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.12', 'Typewriter or similar ribbons, inked or\notherwise prepared for giving\nimpressions, whether or not on spools\nor in cartridges; ink-pads, whether or\nnot inked, with or without boxes.', '', ''], ['', '9612.10', '- Ribbons :', '', ''], ['10758', '9612.10.10', '- - Of textile fabric', '0%', 'E0'], ['10759', '9612.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10760', '9612.20.00', '- Ink-pads', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.13', 'Cigarette lighters and other lighters,\nwhether or not mechanical or electrical,\nand parts thereof other than flints and\nwicks.', '', ''], ['', '9613.10', '- Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, non-\nrefillable :', '', ''], ['10761', '9613.10.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10762', '9613.10.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9613.20', '- Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, refillable :', '', ''], ['10763', '9613.20.10', '- - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10764', '9613.20.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9613.80', '- Other lighters :', '', ''], ['10765', '9613.80.10', '- - Piezo-electric lighters for stoves and\nranges', '0%', 'E0'], ['10766', '9613.80.20', '- - Cigarette lighters or table lighters of\nplastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10767', '9613.80.30', '- - Cigarette lighters or table lighters,\nother than of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10768', '9613.80.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9613.90', '- Parts :', '', ''], ['10769', '9613.90.10', '- - Refillable cartridges or other\nreceptacles, which constitute parts of\nmechanical lighters, containing liquid fuel\nor liquefied gases', '0%', 'E0'], ['10770', '9613.90.90', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.14', 'Smoking pipes (including pipe bowls)\nand cigar or cigarette holders, and\nparts thereof.', '', ''], ['10771', '9614.00.10', '- Roughly shaped blocks of wood or root\nfor the manufacture of pipes', '0%', 'E0'], ['10772', '9614.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.15', 'Combs, hair-slides and the like; hair\npins, curling pins, curling grips, hair-\ncurlers and the like, other than those of\nheading 85.16, and parts thereof.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Combs, hair-slides and the like :', '', ''], ['', '9615.11', '- - Of hard rubber or plastics :', '', ''], ['10773', '9615.11.20', '- - - Of hard rubber', '0%', 'E0'], ['10774', '9615.11.30', '- - - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10775', '9615.19.00', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '9615.90', '- Other :', '', ''], ['', '', '- - Decorative hair pins :', '', ''], ['10776', '9615.90.11', '- - - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['10777', '9615.90.12', '- - - Of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['10778', '9615.90.13', '- - - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10779', '9615.90.19', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Parts :', '', ''], ['10780', '9615.90.21', '- - - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10781', '9615.90.22', '- - - Of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['10782', '9615.90.23', '- - - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['10783', '9615.90.29', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- - Other :', '', ''], ['10784', '9615.90.91', '- - - Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['10785', '9615.90.92', '- - - Of iron or steel', '0%', 'E0'], ['10786', '9615.90.93', '- - - Of plastics', '0%', 'E0'], ['10787', '9615.90.99', '- - - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.16', 'Scent sprays and similar toilet sprays,\nand mounts and heads therefor;\npowder-puffs and pads for the\napplication of cosmetics or toilet\npreparations.', '', ''], ['', '9616.10', '- Scent sprays and similar toilet sprays,\nand mounts and heads therefor :', '', ''], ['10788', '9616.10.10', '- - Scent sprays and similar toilet sprays', '0%', 'E0'], ['10789', '9616.10.20', '- - Mounts and heads', '0%', 'E0'], ['10790', '9616.20.00', '- Powder-puffs and pads for the\napplication of cosmetics or toilet\npreparations', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.17', 'Vacuum flasks and other vacuum\nvessels, complete with cases; parts\nthereof other than glass inners.', '', ''], ['10791', '9617.00.10', '- Vacuum flask and other vacuum vessels,\ncomplete with cases', '0%', 'E0'], ['10792', '9617.00.20', '- Parts thereof, other than glass inners', '0%', 'E0'], ['10793', '9618.00.00', 'Tailors’ dummies and other lay\nfigures; automata and other animated\ndisplays used for shop window\ndressing.', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.19', 'Sanitary towels (pads) and tampons,\nnapkins and napkin liners for babies\nand similar articles, of any material.', '', ''], ['', '', '- Disposable articles :', '', ''], ['10794', '9619.00.11', '- - With an absorbent core of wadding of\ntextile materials', '0%', 'E0'], ['10795', '9619.00.12', '- - Sanitary towels and tampons of paper,\npaper pulp, cellulose wadding or webs of\ncellulose fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['10796', '9619.00.13', '- - Baby napkins and pads for\nincontinence, of paper, paper pulp,\ncellulose wadding or webs of cellulose\nfibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['10797', '9619.00.14', '- - Other, of paper, paper pulp, cellulose\nwadding or webs of cellulose fibres', '0%', 'E0'], ['10798', '9619.00.19', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', '- Other :', '', ''], ['10799', '9619.00.91', '- - Knitted or crocheted', '0%', 'E0'], ['10800', '9619.00.99', '- - Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '96.20', 'Monopods, bipods, tripods and similar\narticles.', '', ''], ['10801', '9620.00.10', '- Of plastics', '5%', 'EX'], ['10802', '9620.00.20', '- Of carbon and graphite', '0%', 'E0'], ['10803', '9620.00.30', '- Of iron and steel', '5%', 'E7'], ['10804', '9620.00.40', '- Of aluminium', '0%', 'E0'], ['10805', '9620.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '97.01', 'Paintings, drawings and pastels,\nexecuted entirely by hand, other than\ndrawings of heading 49.06 and other\nthan hand-painted or hand-decorated\nmanufactured articles; collages and\nsimilar decorative plaques.', '', ''], ['10806', '9701.10.00', '- Paintings, drawings and pastels', '0%', 'E0'], ['10807', '9701.90.00', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10808', '9702.00.00', 'Original engravings, prints and\nlithographs.', '0%', 'E0'], ['10809', '9703.00.00', 'Original sculptures and statuary, in any\nmaterial.', '0%', 'E0'], ['10810', '9704.00.00', 'Postage or revenue stamps, stamp-\npostmarks, first day covers, postal\nstationery (stamped paper), and the\nlike, used or unused, other than those of', '0%', 'E0'], ['', '', 'heading 49.07.', '', ''], ['', '97.05', 'Collections and collectors’ pieces of\nzoological, botanical, mineralogical,\nanatomical, historical, archaeological,\npalaeontological, ethnographic or\nnumismatic interest.', '', ''], ['10811', '9705.00.10', '- Of historical, archaeological,\npalaeontological and ethnographic interest', '0%', 'E0'], ['10812', '9705.00.90', '- Other', '0%', 'E0'], ['10813', '9706.00.00', 'Antiques of an age exceeding one\nhundred years', '0%', 'E0']]
ANNEX 3-A Product Specific Rules  Part I – Headnotes to the Schedule  1. Pursuant to Article 3.2(c), this Annex sets out the conditions required for goods to be treated as originating goods.   2. The specific rule, or specific sets of rules, that applies to a particular subheading is set out immediately adjacent to the subheading.   3. Where a subheading is subject to alternative Product Specific Rules, the rule will be considered to be met if a good satisfies one of the alternatives   4. A requirement of a change in tariff classification (hereinafter referred to as the “CTC”) applies only to non-originating materials.   5. Where a CTC rule expressly excludes a change from other tariff classifications, the exclusion applies only to non-originating materials.   6. For purposes of interpreting the Product Specific Rules Schedule set forth in this Annex:  section means a section of the Harmonized System (hereinafter referred to as the “HS”);   chapter means the first two digits of the tariff classification number under the HS;  heading means the first four digits of the tariff classification number under the HS; and  subheading means the first six digits of the tariff classification number under the HS.   7. For purposes of column 3 of this Annex:  WO means wholly obtained or produced in the territory of a Party as provided in Article 3.3; 
CC means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff classification at the 2-digit level;  CTH means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff classification at the 4-digit level;   CTSH means that all non-originating materials used in the production of the good have undergone a change in tariff classification at the 6-digit level; and  RVC/QVC40 means that the good must have a regional/qualifying value content of not less than 40 percent as calculated under Article 3.4.  
Part II – Product Specific Rules Schedule  
[['', 'Tariff', '', 'Product Description', '', 'Applicable Product', ''], [None, 'Reference', None, None, None, 'Specific Rule of', None], [None, '(HS2017)', None, None, None, 'Origin', None], ['SECTION I -LIVE ANIMALS; ANIMAL PRODUCTS', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 01', None, None, 'Live Animals', '', None, None], ['0101', None, None, 'Live horses, asses, mules and hinnies.', '', None, None], ['0101.2', None, None, '-Horses:', '', None, None], ['0101.21', None, None, '--Pure-bred breeding animals', 'WO', None, None], ['0101.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0101.30', None, None, '-Asses', 'WO', None, None], ['0101.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0102', None, None, 'Live bovine animals.', '', None, None], ['0102.2', None, None, '-Cattle:', '', None, None], ['0102.21', None, None, '--Pure-bred breeding animals', 'WO', None, None], ['0102.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0102.3', None, None, '-Buffalo:', '', None, None], ['0102.31', None, None, '--Pure-bred breeding animals', 'WO', None, None], ['0102.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0102.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0103', None, None, 'Live swine.', '', None, None], ['0103.10', None, None, '-Pure-bred breeding animals', 'WO', None, None], ['0103.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0103.91', None, None, '--Weighing less than 50 kg', 'WO', None, None], ['0103.92', None, None, '--Weighing 50 kg or more', 'WO', None, None], ['0104', None, None, 'Live sheep and goats.', '', None, None], ['0104.10', None, None, '-Sheep', 'WO', None, None], ['0104.20', None, None, '-Goats', 'WO', None, None], ['0105', None, None, 'Live poultry, that is to say, fowls of the species\nGallus domesticus, ducks, geese, turkeys and\nguinea fowls.', '', None, None], ['0105.1', None, None, '-Weighing not more than 185g:', '', None, None], ['0105.11', None, None, '--Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.12', None, None, '--Turkeys', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.13', None, None, '--Ducks', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.14', None, None, '--Geese', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.15', None, None, '--Guinea fowls', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0105.94', None, None, '--Fowls of the species Gallus domesticus', 'WO', None, None], ['0105.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0106', None, None, 'Other live animals.', '', None, None], ['0106.1', None, None, '-Mammals:', '', None, None], ['0106.11', None, None, '--Primates', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.12', None, None, '--Whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the\norder Cetacea); manatees and dugongs (mammals of\nthe order Sirenia); seals, sea lions and walruses\n(mammals of the suborder Pinnipedia)', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.13', None, None, '--Camels and other camelids (Camelidae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.14', None, None, '--Rabbits and hares', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.20', None, None, '-Reptiles (including snakes and turtles)', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.3', None, None, '-Birds:', '', None, None], ['0106.31', None, None, '--Birds of prey', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.32', None, None, '--Psittaciformes (including parrots, parakeets,\nmacaws and cockatoos)', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.33', None, None, '--Ostriches; emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.4', None, None, '-Insects:', '', None, None], ['0106.41', None, None, '--Bees', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.49', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0106.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 02', None, None, 'Meat and Edible Meat Offal', '', None, None], ['0201', None, None, 'Meat of bovine animals, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0201.10', None, None, '-Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0201.20', None, None, '-Other cuts with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0201.30', None, None, '-Boneless', 'WO', None, None], ['0202', None, None, 'Meat of bovine animals, frozen.', '', None, None], ['0202.10', None, None, '-Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0202.20', None, None, '-Other cuts with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0202.30', None, None, '-Boneless', 'WO', None, None], ['0203', None, None, 'Meat of swine, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', None, None], ['0203.1', None, None, '-Fresh or chilled:', '', None, None], ['0203.11', None, None, '--Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0203.12', None, None, '--Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0203.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0203.2', None, None, '-Frozen:', '', None, None], ['0203.21', None, None, '--Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0203.22', None, None, '--Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0203.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0204', None, None, 'Meat of sheep or goats, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', None, None], ['0204.10', None, None, '-Carcasses and half-carcasses of lamb, fresh or\nchilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.2', None, None, '-Other meat of sheep, fresh or chilled:', '', None, None], ['0204.21', None, None, '--Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.22', None, None, '--Other cuts with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.23', None, None, '--Boneless', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.30', None, None, '-Carcasses and half-carcasses of lamb, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.4', None, None, '-Other meat of sheep, frozen:', '', None, None], ['0204.41', None, None, '--Carcasses and half-carcasses', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.42', None, None, '--Other cuts with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.43', None, None, '--Boneless', 'WO', None, None], ['0204.50', None, None, '-Meat of goats', 'WO', None, None], ['0205', None, None, 'Meat of horses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh,\nchilled or frozen.', '', None, None], ['0205.00', None, None, '-Meat of horses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh,\nchilled or frozen.', 'WO', None, None], ['0206', None, None, 'Edible offal of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats,\nhorses, asses, mules or hinnies, fresh, chilled or\nfrozen.', '', None, None], ['0206.10', None, None, '-Of bovine animals, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.2', None, None, '-Of bovine animals, frozen:', '', None, None], ['0206.21', None, None, '--Tongues', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.22', None, None, '--Livers', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.30', None, None, '-Of swine, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.4', None, None, '-Of swine, frozen:', '', None, None], ['0206.41', None, None, '--Livers', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.49', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.80', None, None, '-Other, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0206.90', None, None, '-Other, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207', None, None, 'Meat and edible offal, of the poultry of heading\n01.05, fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', None, None], ['0207.1', None, None, '-Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus:', '', None, None], ['0207.11', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.12', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.13', None, None, '--Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.14', None, None, '--Cuts and offal, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.2', None, None, '-Of turkeys:', '', None, None], ['0207.24', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.25', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.26', None, None, '--Cuts and offal, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.27', None, None, '--Cuts and offal, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.4', None, None, '-Of ducks:', '', None, None], ['0207.41', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.42', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.43', None, None, '--Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.44', None, None, '--Other, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.45', None, None, '--Other, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.5', None, None, '-Of geese:', '', None, None], ['0207.51', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.52', None, None, '--Not cut in pieces, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.53', None, None, '--Fatty livers, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.54', None, None, '--Other, fresh or chilled', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.55', None, None, '--Other, frozen', 'WO', None, None], ['0207.60', None, None, '-Of guinea fowls', 'WO', None, None], ['0208', None, None, 'Other meat and edible meat offal, fresh, chilled or\nfrozen.', '', None, None], ['0208.10', None, None, '-Of rabbits or hares', 'WO', None, None], ['0208.30', None, None, '-Of primates', 'WO', None, None], ['0208.40', None, None, '-Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the\norder Cetacea); of manatees and dugongs (mammals\nof the order Sirenia); of seals, sea lions and walruses\n(mammals of the suborder Pinnipedia)', 'WO', None, None], ['0208.50', None, None, '-Of reptiles (including snakes and turtles)', 'WO', None, None], ['0208.60', None, None, '-Of camels and other camelids (Camelidae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0209', None, None, 'Pig fat, free of lean meat, and poultry fat, not\nrendered or otherwise extracted, fresh, chilled,\nfrozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked.', '', None, None], ['0209.10', None, None, '-Of pigs', 'WO', None, None], ['0209.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0210', None, None, 'Meat and edible meat offal, salted, in brine, dried\nor smoked; edible flours and meals of meat or\nmeat offal.', '', None, None], ['0210.1', None, None, '-Meat of swine:', '', None, None], ['0210.11', None, None, '--Hams, shoulders and cuts thereof, with bone in', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.12', None, None, '--Bellies (streaky) and cuts thereof', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.20', None, None, '-Meat of bovine animals', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.9', None, None, '-Other, including edible flours and meals of meat\nor meat offal:', '', None, None], ['0210.91', None, None, '--Of primates', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.92', None, None, '--Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the\norder Cetacea); of manatees and dugongs (mammals\nof the order Sirenia); of seals, sea lions and walruses\n(mammals of the suborder Pinnipedia)', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.93', None, None, '--Of reptiles (including snakes and turtles)', 'WO', None, None], ['0210.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 03', None, None, 'Fish and Crustaceans, Molluscs and Other\nAquatic Invertebrates', '', None, None], ['0301', None, None, 'Live fish.', '', None, None], ['0301.1', None, None, '-Ornamental fish:', '', None, None], ['0301.11', None, None, '--Freshwater', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.9', None, None, '-Other live fish:', '', None, None], ['0301.91', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.92', None, None, '--Eels (Anguilla spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.93', None, None, '--Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus\nhoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.94', None, None, '--Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus, Thunnus orientalis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.95', None, None, '--Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii)', 'WO', None, None], ['0301.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302', None, None, 'Fish, fresh or chilled, excluding fish fillets and\nother fish meat of heading 03.04.', '', None, None], ['0302.1', None, None, '-Salmonidae, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0302.91 to 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.11', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.13', None, None, '--Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus kisutch,\nOncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.14', None, None, '--Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.2', None, None, '-Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae,\nSoleidae, Scophthalmidae and Citharidae),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0302.91\nto 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.21', None, None, '--Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides,\nHippoglossus hippoglossus, Hippoglossus stenolepis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.22', None, None, '--Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.23', None, None, '--Sole (Solea spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.24', None, None, '--Turbots (Psetta maxima)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.3', None, None, '-Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack or stripe-\nbellied bonito (Euthynnus (Katsuwonus) pelamis),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0302.91\nto 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.31', None, None, '--Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.32', None, None, '--Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.33', None, None, '--Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.34', None, None, '--Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.35', None, None, '--Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus, Thunnus orientalis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.36', None, None, '--Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.4', None, None, '-Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii),\nanchovies (Engraulis spp.), sardines (Sardina\npilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella\nspp.), brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus),\nmackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus), Indian\nmackerels (Rastrelliger spp.), seerfishes\n(Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse mackerel\n(Trachurus spp.), jacks, crevalles (Caranx spp.),\ncobia (Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis saira),\nscads (Decapterus spp.), capelin (Mallotus villosus),\nswordfish (Xiphias gladius), Kawakawa\n(Euthynnus affinis), bonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins,\nsailfishes, spearfish (Istiophoridae), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheading 0302.91 to 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.41', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.42', None, None, '--Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.43', None, None, '--Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.),\nsardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(Sprattus sprattus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.44', None, None, '--Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.45', None, None, '--Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.46', None, None, '--Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.47', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.49', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.5', None, None, '-Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0302.91 to 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.51', None, None, '--Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.52', None, None, '--Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.53', None, None, '--Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.54', None, None, '--Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.55', None, None, '--Alaska Pollack (Theragra chalcogramma)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.56', None, None, '--Blue whitings (Micromesistius poutassou,\nMicromesistius australis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.59', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.7', None, None, '-Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0302.91\nto 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.71', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.72', None, None, '--Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp.,\nIctalurus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.73', None, None, '--Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\ncatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus\nhoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.74', None, None, '--Eels (Anguilla spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.79', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.8', None, None, '-Other fish, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0302.91 to 0302.99:', '', None, None], ['0302.81', None, None, '--Dogfish and other sharks', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.82', None, None, '--Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.83', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.84', None, None, '--Seabass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.85', None, None, '--Seabream (Sparidae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.89', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.9', None, None, '-Livers, roes, milt, fish fins, heads, tails, maws and\nother edible fish offal:', '', None, None], ['0302.91', None, None, '--Livers, roes and milt', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.92', None, None, '--Shark fins', 'WO', None, None], ['0302.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303', None, None, 'Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets and other fish\nmeat of heading 03.04.', '', None, None], ['0303.1', None, None, '-Salmonidae, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0303.91 to 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.11', None, None, '--Sockeye salmon (red salmon) (Oncorhynchus\nnerka)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.12', None, None, '--Other Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus gorbuscha,\nOncorhynchus keta, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha,\nOncorhynchus kisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and\nOncorhynchus rhodurus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.13', None, None, '--Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.14', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.2', None, None, '-Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0303.91\nto 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.23', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.24', None, None, '--Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp.,\nIctalurus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.25', None, None, '--Carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp.,\nCirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus, Catla\nCatla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus\nhoeveni, Megalobrama spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.26', None, None, '--Eels (Anguilla spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.3', None, None, '-Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae,\nSoleidae, Scophthalmidae and Citharidae),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0303.91\nto 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.31', None, None, '--Halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides,\nHippoglossus hippoglossus, Hippoglossus stenolepis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.32', None, None, '--Plaice (Pleuronectes platessa)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.33', None, None, '--Sole (Solea spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.34', None, None, '--Turbots (Psetta maxima)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.4', None, None, '-Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack or stripe-\nbellied bonito (Euthynnus (Katsuwonus) pelamis),\nexcluding edible fish offal of subheading 0303.91\nto 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.41', None, None, '--Albacore or longfinned tunas (Thunnus alalunga)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.42', None, None, '--Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.43', None, None, '--Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.44', None, None, '--Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.45', None, None, '--Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tunas (Thunnus\nthynnus, Thunnus orientalis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.46', None, None, '--Southern bluefin tunas (Thunnus maccoyii)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.49', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.5', None, None, '-Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii),\nanchovies (Engraulis spp.), sardines (Sardina\npilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella\nspp.), brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus),\nmackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus), Indian\nmackerels (Rastrelliger spp.), seerfishes\n(Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse mackerel\n(Trachurus spp.), jacks, crevalles (Caranx spp.),\ncobia (Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis saira),\nscads (Decapterus spp.), capelin (Mallotus villosus),\nswordfish (Xiphias gladius), Kawakawa\n(Euthynnus affinis), bonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins,\nsailfishes, spearfish (Istiophoridae), excluding\nedible fish offal of subheading 0303.91 to 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.51', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.53', None, None, '--Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.),\nsardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(Sprattus sprattus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.54', None, None, '--Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.55', None, None, '--Jack and horse mackerel (Trachurus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.56', None, None, '--Cobia (Rachycentron canadum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.57', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.59', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.6', None, None, '-Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0303.91 to 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.63', None, None, '--Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.64', None, None, '--Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.65', None, None, '--Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.66', None, None, '--Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.67', None, None, '--Alaska Pollack (Theragra chalcogramma)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.68', None, None, '--Blue whitings (Micromesistius poutassou,\nMicromesistius australis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.69', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.8', None, None, '-Other fish, excluding edible fish offal of\nsubheading 0303.91 to 0303.99:', '', None, None], ['0303.81', None, None, '--Dogfish and other sharks', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.82', None, None, '--Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.83', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.84', None, None, '--Sea bass (Dicentrarchus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.89', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.9', None, None, '-Livers, roes, milt, fish fins, heads, tails, maws and\nother edible fish offal:', '', None, None], ['0303.91', None, None, '--Livers, roes and milt', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.92', None, None, '--Shark fins', 'WO', None, None], ['0303.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0304', None, None, 'Fish fillets and other fish meat (whether or not\nminced), fresh, chilled or frozen.', '', None, None], ['0304.3', None, None, '-Fresh or chilled fillets of tilapias (Oreochromis\nspp.), catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias\nspp., Ictalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius\nspp., Ctenopharyngodon idellus,\nHypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.):', '', None, None], ['0304.31', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.32', None, None, '--Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp.,\nIctalurus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.33', None, None, '--Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.4', None, None, '-Fresh or chilled fillets of other fish:', '', None, None], ['0304.41', None, None, '--Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus kisutch,\nOncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.42', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.43', None, None, '--Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae,\nSoleidae, Scophthalmidae and Citharidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.44', None, None, '--Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.45', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.46', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.47', None, None, '--Dogfish and other sharks', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.48', None, None, '--Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.5', None, None, '-Other, fresh or chilled:', '', None, None], ['0304.51', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,', 'CC', None, None], ['', None, None, 'Osteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', '', None, None], ['0304.52', None, None, '--Salmonidae', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.53', None, None, '--Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.54', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.55', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.56', None, None, '--Dogfish and other sharks', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.57', None, None, '--Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.6', None, None, '-Frozen fillets of tilapias (Oreochromis spp.),\ncatfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp.,\nIctalurus spp.), carp (Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp.,\nCtenopharyngodon idellus, Hypophthalmichthys\nspp., Cirrhinus spp., Mylopharyngodon piceus,\nCatla catla, Labeo spp., Osteochilus hasselti,\nLeptobarbus hoeveni, Megalobrama spp.), eels\n(Anguilla spp.), Nile perch (Lates niloticus) and\nsnakeheads (Channa spp.):', '', None, None], ['0304.61', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.62', None, None, '--Catfish (Pangasius spp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp.,\nIctalurus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.63', None, None, '--Nile Perch (Lates niloticus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.7', None, None, '-Frozen fillets of fish of the families\nBregmacerotidae, Euclichthyidae, Gadidae,\nMacrouridae, Melanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae\nand Muraenolepididae:', '', None, None], ['0304.71', None, None, '--Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.72', None, None, '--Haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.73', None, None, '--Coalfish (Pollachius virens)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.74', None, None, '--Hake (Merluccius spp., Urophycis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.75', None, None, '--Alaska Pollack (Theragra chalcogramma)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.8', None, None, '-Frozen fillets of other fish:', '', None, None], ['0304.81', None, None, '--Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus kisutch,\nOncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.82', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.83', None, None, '--Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae,\nSoleidae, Scophthalmidae and Citharidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.84', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.85', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.86', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.87', None, None, '--Tunas (of the genus Thunnus), skipjack or stripe-\nbellied bonito (Euthynnus (Katsuwonus) pelamis)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.88', None, None, '--Dogfish, other sharks, Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.9', None, None, '-Other, frozen:', '', None, None], ['0304.91', None, None, '--Swordfish (Xiphias gladius)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.92', None, None, '--Toothfish (Dissostichus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.93', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.94', None, None, '--Alaska Pollack (Theragra chalcogramma)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.95', None, None, '--Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, other than Alaska\nPollack(Theragra chalcogramma)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.96', None, None, '--Dogfish and other sharks', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.97', None, None, '--Rays and skates (Rajidae)', 'CC', None, None], ['0304.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0305', None, None, 'Fish, dried, salted or in brine; smoked fish,\nwhether or not cooked before or during the\nsmoking process; flours, meals and pellets of fish,\nfit for human consumption.', '', None, None], ['0305.10', None, None, '-Flours, meals and pellets of fish, fit for human\nconsumption', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.20', None, None, '-Livers, roes and milt of fish, dried, smoked, salted or\nin brine', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.3', None, None, '-Fish fillets, dried, salted or in brine, but not\nsmoked:', '', None, None], ['0305.31', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.32', None, None, '--Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.4', None, None, '-Smoked fish, including fillets, other than edible', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'fish offal:', '', None, None], ['0305.41', None, None, '--Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka,\nOncorhynchus gorbuscha, Oncorhynchus keta,\nOncorhynchus tschawytscha, Oncorhynchus kisutch,\nOncorhynchus masou and oncorhynchus rhodurus),\nAtlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.42', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.43', None, None, '--Trout (Salmo trutta, Oncorhynchus mykiss,\nOncorhynchus clarki, Oncorhynchus aguabonita,\nOncorhynchus gilae, Oncorhynchus apache and\nOncorhynchus chrysogaster)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.44', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.5', None, None, '-Dried fish, other than edible fish offal, whether or\nnot salted but not smoked:', '', None, None], ['0305.51', None, None, '--Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nmacrocephalus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.52', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.53', None, None, '--Fish of the families Bregmacerotidae,\nEuclichthyidae, Gadidae, Macrouridae,\nMelanonidae, Merlucciidae, Moridae and\nMuraenolepididae, other than cod (Gadus morhua,\nGadus ogac, Gadus macrocephalus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.54', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii),\nanchovies (Engraulis spp.), sardines (Sardina\npilchardus, Sardinops spp.), sardinella (Sardinella\nspp.), brisling or sprats (Sprattus sprattus), mackerel\n(Scomber scombrus, Scomber australasicus, Scomber\njaponicus), Indian mackerels (Rastrelliger spp.),\nseerfishes (Scomberomorus spp.), jack and horse\nmackerel (Trachurus spp.), jacks, crevalles (Caranx\nspp.), cobia (Rachycentron canadum), silver pomfrets\n(Pampus spp.), Pacific saury (Cololabis saira), scads\n(Decapterus spp.), capelin (Mallotus villosus),\nswordfish (Xiphias gladius), Kawakawa (Euthynnus\naffinis), bonitos (Sarda spp.), marlins, sailfishes,', 'CC', None, None], ['', None, None, 'spearfish (Istiophoridae)', '', None, None], ['0305.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.6', None, None, '-Fish, salted but not dried or smoked and fish in\nbrine, other than edible fish offal:', '', None, None], ['0305.61', None, None, '--Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.62', None, None, '--Cod (Gadus morhua, Gadus ogac, Gadus\nMacrocephalus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.63', None, None, '--Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.64', None, None, '--Tilapias (Oreochromis spp.), catfish (Pangasius\nspp., Silurus spp., Clarias spp., Ictalurus spp.), carp\n(Cyprinus spp., Carassius spp., Ctenopharyngodon\nidellus, Hypophthalmichthys spp., Cirrhinus spp.,\nMylopharyngodon piceus, Catla catla, Labeo spp.,\nOsteochilus hasselti, Leptobarbus hoeveni,\nMegalobrama spp.), eels (Anguilla spp.), Nile perch\n(Lates niloticus) and snakeheads (Channa spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.7', None, None, '-Fish fins, heads, tails, maws and other edible fish\noffal:', '', None, None], ['0305.71', None, None, '--Shark fins', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.72', None, None, '--Fish heads, tails and maws', 'CC', None, None], ['0305.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0306', None, None, 'Crustaceans, whether in shell or not, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine; smoked\ncrustaceans, whether in shell or not, whether or\nnot cooked before or during the smoking process;\ncrustaceans, in shell, cooked by steaming or by\nboiling in water, whether or not chilled, frozen,\ndried, salted or in brine; flours, meals and pellets\nof crustaceans, fit for human consumption.', '', None, None], ['0306.1', None, None, '-Frozen:', '', None, None], ['0306.11', None, None, '--Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus\nspp., Panulirus spp., Jasus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.12', None, None, '--Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.14', None, None, '--Crabs', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.15', None, None, '--Norway lobsters (Nephrops norvegicus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.16', None, None, '--Cold-water shrimps and prawns (Pandalus spp.,\nCrangon crangon)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.17', None, None, '--Other shrimps and prawns', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.19', None, None, '--Other, including flours, meals and pellets of\ncrustaceans, fit for human consumption', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.3', None, None, '-Live, fresh or chilled:', '', None, None], ['0306.31', None, None, '--Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus\nspp., Panulirus spp., Jasus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.32', None, None, '--Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.33', None, None, '--Crabs', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.34', None, None, '--Norway lobsters (Nephrops norvegicus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.35', None, None, '--Cold-water shrimps and prawns (Pandalus spp.,\nCrangon crangon)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.36', None, None, '--Other shrimps and prawns', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.39', None, None, '--Other, including flours, meals and pellets of\ncrustaceans, fit for human consumption', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0306.91', None, None, '--Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus\nspp., Panulirus spp., Jasus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.92', None, None, '--Lobsters (Homarus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.93', None, None, '--Crabs', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.94', None, None, '--Norway lobsters (Nephrops norvegicus)', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.95', None, None, '--Shrimps and prawns', 'CC', None, None], ['0306.99', None, None, '--Other, including flours, meals and pellets of\ncrustaceans, fit for human consumption', 'CC', None, None], ['0307', None, None, 'Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine; smoked\nmolluscs, whether in shell or not, whether or not\ncooked before or during the smoking process;\nflours, meals and pellets of molluscs, fit for human\nconsumption.', '', None, None], ['0307.1', None, None, '-Oysters:', '', None, None], ['0307.11', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.12', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.2', None, None, '-Scallops, including queen scallops, of the genera\nPecten, Chlamys or Placopecten:', '', None, None], ['0307.21', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.22', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.3', None, None, '-Mussels (Mytilus spp., Perna spp.):', '', None, None], ['0307.31', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.32', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.4', None, None, '-Cuttle fish and squid:', '', None, None], ['0307.42', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.43', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.5', None, None, '-Octopus (Octopus spp.):', '', None, None], ['0307.51', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.52', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.60', None, None, '-Snails, other than sea snails', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0307.7', None, None, '-Clams, cockles and ark shells (families Arcidae,\nArcticidae, Cardiidae, Donacidae, Hiatellidae,\nMactridae, Mesodesmatidae, Myidae, Semelidae,\nSolecurtidae, Solenidae, Tridacnidae and\nVeneridae):', '', None, None], ['0307.71', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.72', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.8', None, None, '-Abalone (Haliotis spp.) and stromboid conchs\n(Strombus spp.):', '', None, None], ['0307.81', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled abalone (Haliotis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.82', None, None, '-- Live, fresh or chilled stromboid conchs (Strombus\nspp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.83', None, None, '--Frozen abalone (Haliotis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.84', None, None, '--Frozen stromboid conchs (Strombus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.87', None, None, '--Other abalone (Haliotis spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.88', None, None, '--Other stromboid conchs (Strombus spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.9', None, None, '-Other, including flours, meals and pellets, fit for\nhuman consumption:', '', None, None], ['0307.91', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.92', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0307.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0308', None, None, 'Aquatic invertebrates other than crustaceans and\nmolluscs, live, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted\nor in brine; smoked aquatic invertebrates other\nthan crustaceans and molluscs, whether or not\ncooked before or during the smoking process;\nflours, meals and pellets of aquatic invertebrates\nother than crustaceans and molluscs, fit for\nhuman consumption.', '', None, None], ['0308.1', None, None, '-Sea cucumbers (Stichopus japonicus,\nHolothuroidea):', '', None, None], ['0308.11', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.12', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.2', None, None, '-Sea urchins (Strongylocentrotus spp.,\nParacentrotus lividus, Loxechinus albus, Echinus\nesculentus):', '', None, None], ['0308.21', None, None, '--Live, fresh or chilled', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.22', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.30', None, None, '-Jellyfish (Rhopilema spp.)', 'CC', None, None], ['0308.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 04', None, None, "Dairy Produce; Birds' Eggs; Natural Honey;\nEdible Products of Animal Origin, Not Elsewhere\nSpecified or Included", '', None, None], ['0401', None, None, 'Milk and cream, not concentrated nor containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening matter.', '', None, None], ['0401.10', None, None, '-Of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 1%', 'CC', None, None], ['0401.20', None, None, '-Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 1% but not\nexceeding 6%', 'CC', None, None], ['0401.40', None, None, '-Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 6% but not\nexceeding 10%', 'CC', None, None], ['0401.50', None, None, '-Of a fat content, by weight, exceeding 10%', 'CC', None, None], ['0402', None, None, 'Milk and cream, concentrated or containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening matter.', '', None, None], ['0402.10', None, None, '-In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat\ncontent, by weight, not exceeding 1.5 %', 'CC', None, None], ['0402.2', None, None, '-In powder, granules or other solid forms, of a fat\ncontent, by weight, exceeding 1.5 %:', '', None, None], ['0402.21', None, None, '--Not containing added sugar or other sweetening', 'CC', None, None], ['', None, None, 'matter', '', None, None], ['0402.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0402.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0402.91', None, None, '--Not containing added sugar or other sweetening\nmatter', 'CC', None, None], ['0402.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['0403', None, None, 'Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt,\nkephir and other fermented or acidified milk and\ncream, whether or not concentrated or containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening matter or\nflavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa.', '', None, None], ['0403.10', None, None, '-Yogurt', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0403.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0404', None, None, 'Whey, whether or not concentrated or containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening matter; products\nconsisting of natural milk constituents, whether or\nnot containing added sugar or other sweetening\nmatter, not elsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['0404.10', None, None, '-Whey and modified whey, whether or not\nconcentrated or containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0404.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0405', None, None, 'Butter and other fats and oils derived from milk;\ndairy spreads.', '', None, None], ['0405.10', None, None, '-Butter', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0405.20', None, None, '-Dairy spreads', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0405.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0406', None, None, 'Cheese and curd.', '', None, None], ['0406.10', None, None, '-Fresh (unripened or uncured) cheese, including\nwhey cheese, and curd', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0406.20', None, None, '-Grated or powdered cheese, of all kinds', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0406.30', None, None, '-Processed cheese, not grated or powdered', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0406.40', None, None, '-Blue-veined cheese and other cheese containing\nveins produced by Penicillium roqueforti', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0406.90', None, None, '-Other cheese', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0407', None, None, "Birds' eggs, in shell, fresh, preserved or cooked.", '', None, None], ['0407.1', None, None, '-Fertilised eggs for incubation:', '', None, None], ['0407.11', None, None, '--Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus', 'WO', None, None], ['0407.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0407.2', None, None, '-Other fresh eggs :', '', None, None], ['0407.21', None, None, '--Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus', 'WO', None, None], ['0407.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0407.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0408', None, None, "Birds' eggs, not in shell, and egg yolks, fresh,\ndried, cooked by steaming or by boiling in water,\nmoulded, frozen or otherwise preserved, whether\nor not containing added sugar or other sweetening\nmatter.", '', None, None], ['0408.1', None, None, '-Egg yolks:', '', None, None], ['0408.11', None, None, '--Dried', 'WO', None, None], ['0408.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0408.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0408.91', None, None, '--Dried', 'WO', None, None], ['0408.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0409', None, None, 'Natural honey.', '', None, None], ['0409.00', None, None, '-Natural honey.', 'WO', None, None], ['0410', None, None, 'Edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', None, None], ['0410.00', None, None, '-Edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 05', None, None, 'Products of Animal Origin, Not Elsewhere\nSpecified or Included', '', None, None], ['0501', None, None, 'Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or\nscoured; waste of human hair.', '', None, None], ['0501.00', None, None, '-Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or\nscoured; waste of human hair.', 'WO', None, None], ['0502', None, None, "Pigs', hogs' or boars' bristles and hair; badger\nhair and other brush making hair; waste of such\nbristles or hair.", '', None, None], ['0502.10', None, None, "-Pigs', hogs' or boars' bristles and hair and waste\nthereof", 'WO', None, None], ['0502.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0504', None, None, 'Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other\nthan fish), whole and pieces thereof, fresh, chilled,\nfrozen, salted, in brine, dried or smoked.', '', None, None], ['0504.00', None, None, '-Guts, bladders and stomachs of animals (other than\nfish), whole and pieces thereof, fresh, chilled, frozen,\nsalted, in brine, dried or smoked.', 'WO', None, None], ['0505', None, None, 'Skins and other parts of birds, with their feathers\nor down, feathers and parts of feathers (whether\nor not with trimmed edges) and down, not further\nworked than cleaned, disinfected or treated for\npreservation; powder and waste of feathers or\nparts of feathers.', '', None, None], ['0505.10', None, None, '-Feathers of a kind used for stuffing; down', 'WO', None, None], ['0505.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0506', None, None, 'Bones and horn-cores, unworked, defatted, simply\nprepared (but not cut to shape), treated with acid\nor degelatinised; powder and waste of these\nproducts.', '', None, None], ['0506.10', None, None, '-Ossein and bones treated with acid', 'WO', None, None], ['0506.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0507', None, None, 'Ivory, tortoise-shell, whalebone and whalebone\nhair, horns, antlers, hooves, nails, claws and\nbeaks, unworked or simply prepared but not cut\nto shape; powder and waste of these products.', '', None, None], ['0507.10', None, None, '-Ivory; ivory powder and waste', 'WO', None, None], ['0507.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0508', None, None, 'Coral and similar materials, unworked or simply\nprepared but not otherwise worked; shells of\nmolluscs, crustaceans or echinoderms and cuttle-', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'bone, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to\nshape, powder and waste thereof.', '', None, None], ['0508.00', None, None, '-Coral and similar materials, unworked or simply\nprepared but not otherwise worked; shells of\nmolluscs, crustaceans or echinoderms and cuttle-\nbone, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to\nshape, powder and waste thereof.', 'WO', None, None], ['0510', None, None, 'Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk;\ncantharides; bile, whether or not dried; glands\nand other animal products used in the preparation\nof pharmaceutical products, fresh, chilled, frozen\nor otherwise provisionally preserved.', '', None, None], ['0510.00', None, None, '-Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk; cantharides;\nbile, whether or not dried; glands and other animal\nproducts used in the preparation of pharmaceutical\nproducts, fresh, chilled, frozen or otherwise\nprovisionally preserved.', 'WO', None, None], ['0511', None, None, 'Animal products not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; dead animals of Chapter 01 or 03, unfit\nfor human consumption.', '', None, None], ['0511.10', None, None, '-Bovine semen', 'WO', None, None], ['0511.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0511.91', None, None, '--Products of fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other\naquatic invertebrates; dead animals of Chapter 03', 'WO', None, None], ['0511.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['SECTION II -VEGETABLE PRODUCTS', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 06', None, None, 'Live Trees and Other Plants; Bulbs, Roots and the\nLike; Cut Flowers and Ornamental Foliage', '', None, None], ['0601', None, None, 'Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and\nrhizomes, dormant, in growth or in flower;\nchicory plants and roots other than roots of\nheading 12.12.', '', None, None], ['0601.10', None, None, '-Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and\nrhizomes, dormant', 'WO', None, None], ['0601.20', None, None, '-Bulbs, tubers, tuberous roots, corms, crowns and\nrhizomes, in growth or in flower; chicory plants and\nroots', 'WO', None, None], ['0602', None, None, 'Other live plants (including their roots), cuttings\nand slips; mushroom spawn.', '', None, None], ['0602.10', None, None, '-Unrooted cuttings and slips', 'WO', None, None], ['0602.20', None, None, '-Trees, shrubs and bushes, grafted or not, of kinds\nwhich bear edible fruit or nuts', 'WO', None, None], ['0602.30', None, None, '-Rhododendrons and azaleas, grafted or not', 'WO', None, None], ['0602.40', None, None, '-Roses, grafted or not', 'WO', None, None], ['0602.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0603', None, None, 'Cut flowers and flower buds of a kind suitable for\nbouquets or for ornamental purposes, fresh, dried,\ndyed, bleached, impregnated or otherwise\nprepared.', '', None, None], ['0603.1', None, None, '-Fresh:', '', None, None], ['0603.11', None, None, '--Roses', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.12', None, None, '--Carnations', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.13', None, None, '--Orchids', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.14', None, None, '--Chrysanthemums', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.15', None, None, '--Lilies (Lilium spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0603.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0604', None, None, 'Foliage, branches and other parts of plants,\nwithout flowers or flower buds, and grasses,\nmosses and lichens, being goods of a kind suitable\nfor bouquets or for ornamental purposes, fresh,\ndried, dyed, bleached, impregnated or otherwise\nprepared.', '', None, None], ['0604.20', None, None, '-Fresh', 'WO', None, None], ['0604.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 07', None, None, 'Edible Vegetables and Certain Roots and Tubers', '', None, None], ['0701', None, None, 'Potatoes, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0701.10', None, None, '-For seed', 'WO', None, None], ['0701.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0702', None, None, 'Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0702.00', None, None, '-Tomatoes, fresh or chilled.', 'WO', None, None], ['0703', None, None, 'Onions, shallots, garlic, leeks and other alliaceous\nvegetables, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0703.10', None, None, '-Onions and shallots', 'WO', None, None], ['0703.20', None, None, '-Garlic', 'WO', None, None], ['0703.90', None, None, '-Leeks and other alliaceous vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0704', None, None, 'Cabbages, cauliflowers, kohlrabi, kale and similar\nedible brassicas, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0704.10', None, None, '-Cauliflowers and headed broccoli', 'WO', None, None], ['0704.20', None, None, '-Brussels sprouts', 'WO', None, None], ['0704.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0705', None, None, 'Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) and chicory (Cichorium\nspp.), fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0705.1', None, None, '-Lettuce:', '', None, None], ['0705.11', None, None, '--Cabbage lettuce (head lettuce)', 'WO', None, None], ['0705.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0705.2', None, None, '-Chicory:', '', None, None], ['0705.21', None, None, '--Witloof chicory (Cichorium intybus var. foliosum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0705.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0706', None, None, 'Carrots, turnips, salad beetroot, salsify, celeriac,\nradishes and similar edible roots, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0706.10', None, None, '-Carrots and turnips', 'WO', None, None], ['0706.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0707', None, None, 'Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0707.00', None, None, '-Cucumbers and gherkins, fresh or chilled.', 'WO', None, None], ['0708', None, None, 'Leguminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled, fresh\nor chilled.', '', None, None], ['0708.10', None, None, '-Peas (Pisum sativum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0708.20', None, None, '-Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0708.90', None, None, '-Other leguminous vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0709', None, None, 'Other vegetables, fresh or chilled.', '', None, None], ['0709.20', None, None, '-Asparagus', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.30', None, None, '-Aubergines (egg-plants)', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.40', None, None, '-Celery other than celeriac', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.5', None, None, '-Mushrooms and truffles:', '', None, None], ['0709.51', None, None, '--Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.59', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.60', None, None, '-Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus\nPimenta', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.70', None, None, '-Spinach, New Zealand spinach and orache spinach\n(garden spinach)', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['0709.91', None, None, '--Globe artichokes', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.92', None, None, '--Olives', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.93', None, None, '--Pumpkins, squash and gourds (Cucurbita spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0709.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0710', None, None, 'Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or\nboiling in water), frozen.', '', None, None], ['0710.10', None, None, '-Potatoes', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.2', None, None, '-Leguminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled:', '', None, None], ['0710.21', None, None, '--Peas (Pisum sativum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.22', None, None, '--Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.30', None, None, '-Spinach, New Zealand spinach and orache spinach\n(garden spinach)', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.40', None, None, '-Sweet corn', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.80', None, None, '-Other vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0710.90', None, None, '-Mixtures of vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0711', None, None, 'Vegetables provisionally preserved (for example,\nby sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water\nor in other preservative solutions), but unsuitable\nin that state for immediate consumption.', '', None, None], ['0711.20', None, None, '-Olives', 'WO', None, None], ['0711.40', None, None, '-Cucumbers and gherkins', 'WO', None, None], ['0711.5', None, None, '-Mushrooms and truffles:', '', None, None], ['0711.51', None, None, '--Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', 'WO', None, None], ['0711.59', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0711.90', None, None, '-Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0712', None, None, 'Dried vegetables, whole, cut, sliced, broken or in\npowder, but not further prepared.', '', None, None], ['0712.20', None, None, '-Onions', 'WO', None, None], ['0712.3', None, None, '-Mushrooms, wood ears (Auricularia spp.), jelly\nfungi (Tremella spp.) and truffles:', '', None, None], ['0712.31', None, None, '--Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', 'WO', None, None], ['0712.32', None, None, '--Wood ears (Auricularia spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0712.33', None, None, '--Jelly fungi (Tremella spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0712.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0712.90', None, None, '-Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables', 'WO', None, None], ['0713', None, None, 'Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled, whether or\nnot skinned or split.', '', None, None], ['0713.10', None, None, '-Peas (Pisum sativum)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.20', None, None, '-Chickpeas (garbanzos)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.3', None, None, '-Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.):', '', None, None], ['0713.31', None, None, '--Beans of the species Vigna mungo (L.) Hepper or\nVigna radiata (L.) Wilczek', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.32', None, None, '--Small red (Adzuki) beans (Phaseolus or Vigna\nangularis)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.33', None, None, '--Kidney beans, including white pea beans\n(Phaseolus vulgaris)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.34', None, None, '--Bambara beans (Vigna subterranea or Voandzeia\nsubterranea)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.35', None, None, '--Cow peas (Vigna unguiculata)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.39', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.40', None, None, '-Lentils', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.50', None, None, '-Broad beans (Vicia faba var. major) and horse beans\n(Vicia faba var. equina, Vicia faba var. minor)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.60', None, None, '-Pigeon peas (Cajanus cajan)', 'WO', None, None], ['0713.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0714', None, None, 'Manioc, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem artichokes,\nsweet potatoes and similar roots and tubers with\nhigh starch or inulin content, fresh, chilled, frozen\nor dried, whether or not sliced or in the form of\npellets; sago pith.', '', None, None], ['0714.10', None, None, '-Manioc (cassava)', 'WO', None, None], ['0714.20', None, None, '-Sweet potatoes', 'WO', None, None], ['0714.30', None, None, '-Yams (Dioscorea spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0714.40', None, None, '-Taro (Colocasia spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0714.50', None, None, '-Yautia (Xanthosoma spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0714.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 08', None, None, 'Edible Fruit and Nuts; Peel of Citrus Fruit or\nMelons', '', None, None], ['0801', None, None, 'Coconuts, Brazil nuts and cashew nuts, fresh or\ndried, whether or not shelled or peeled.', '', None, None], ['0801.1', None, None, '-Coconuts:', '', None, None], ['0801.11', None, None, '--Desiccated', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.12', None, None, '--In the inner shell (endocarp)', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.2', None, None, '-Brazil nuts:', '', None, None], ['0801.21', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.22', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.3', None, None, '-Cashew nuts:', '', None, None], ['0801.31', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0801.32', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802', None, None, 'Other nuts, fresh or dried, whether or not shelled\nor peeled.', '', None, None], ['0802.1', None, None, '-Almonds:', '', None, None], ['0802.11', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.12', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.2', None, None, '-Hazelnuts or filberts (Corylus spp.):', '', None, None], ['0802.21', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.22', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.3', None, None, '-Walnuts:', '', None, None], ['0802.31', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.32', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.4', None, None, '-Chestnuts (Castanea spp.):', '', None, None], ['0802.41', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.42', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.5', None, None, '-Pistachios:', '', None, None], ['0802.51', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.52', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.6', None, None, '-Macadamia nuts:', '', None, None], ['0802.61', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.62', None, None, '--Shelled', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.70', None, None, '-Kola nuts (Cola spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.80', None, None, '-Areca nuts', 'WO', None, None], ['0802.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0803', None, None, 'Bananas, including plantains, fresh or dried.', '', None, None], ['0803.10', None, None, '-Plantains', 'WO', None, None], ['0803.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0804', None, None, 'Dates, figs, pineapples, avocados, guavas, mangoes\nand mangosteens, fresh or dried.', '', None, None], ['0804.10', None, None, '-Dates', 'WO', None, None], ['0804.20', None, None, '-Figs', 'WO', None, None], ['0804.30', None, None, '-Pineapples', 'WO', None, None], ['0804.40', None, None, '-Avocados', 'WO', None, None], ['0804.50', None, None, '-Guavas, mangoes and mangosteens', 'WO', None, None], ['0805', None, None, 'Citrus fruit, fresh or dried.', '', None, None], ['0805.10', None, None, '-Oranges', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.2', None, None, '-Mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas);\nclementines, wilkings and similar citrus hybrids:', '', None, None], ['0805.21', None, None, '--Mandarins (including tangerines and satsumas)', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.22', None, None, '--Clementines', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.40', None, None, '-Grapefruit, including pomelos', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.50', None, None, '-Lemons (Citrus limon, Citrus limonum) and limes\n(Citrus aurantifolia, Citrus latifolia)', 'WO', None, None], ['0805.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0806', None, None, 'Grapes, fresh or dried.', '', None, None], ['0806.10', None, None, '-Fresh', 'WO', None, None], ['0806.20', None, None, '-Dried', 'WO', None, None], ['0807', None, None, 'Melons (including watermelons) and papaws\n(papayas), fresh.', '', None, None], ['0807.1', None, None, '-Melons (including watermelons):', '', None, None], ['0807.11', None, None, '--Watermelons', 'WO', None, None], ['0807.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0807.20', None, None, '-Papaws (papayas)', 'WO', None, None], ['0808', None, None, 'Apples, pears and quinces, fresh.', '', None, None], ['0808.10', None, None, '-Apples', 'WO', None, None], ['0808.30', None, None, '-Pears', 'WO', None, None], ['0808.40', None, None, '-Quinces', 'WO', None, None], ['0809', None, None, 'Apricots, cherries, peaches (including nectarines),', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'plums and sloes, fresh.', '', None, None], ['0809.10', None, None, '-Apricots', 'WO', None, None], ['0809.2', None, None, '-Cherries:', '', None, None], ['0809.21', None, None, '--Sour cherries (Prunus cerasus)', 'WO', None, None], ['0809.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0809.30', None, None, '-Peaches, including nectarines', 'WO', None, None], ['0809.40', None, None, '-Plums and sloes', 'WO', None, None], ['0810', None, None, 'Other fruit, fresh.', '', None, None], ['0810.10', None, None, '-Strawberries', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.20', None, None, '-Raspberries, blackberries, mulberries and\nloganberries', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.30', None, None, '-Black, white or red currants and gooseberries', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.40', None, None, '-Cranberries, bilberries and other fruits of the genus\nVaccinium', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.50', None, None, '-Kiwifruit', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.60', None, None, '-Durians', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.70', None, None, '-Persimmons', 'WO', None, None], ['0810.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0811', None, None, 'Fruit and nuts, uncooked or cooked by steaming\nor boiling in water, frozen, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other sweetening\nmatter.', '', None, None], ['0811.10', None, None, '-Strawberries', 'WO', None, None], ['0811.20', None, None, '-Raspberries, blackberries, mulberries, loganberries,\nblack, white or red currants and gooseberries', 'WO', None, None], ['0811.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0812', None, None, 'Fruit and nuts, provisionally preserved (for\nexample, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in\nsulphur water or in other preservative solutions),\nbut unsuitable in that state for immediate\nconsumption.', '', None, None], ['0812.10', None, None, '-Cherries', 'WO', None, None], ['0812.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0813', None, None, 'Fruit, dried, other than that of headings 08.01 to\n08.06; mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this\nChapter.', '', None, None], ['0813.10', None, None, '-Apricots', 'WO', None, None], ['0813.20', None, None, '-Prunes', 'WO', None, None], ['0813.30', None, None, '-Apples', 'WO', None, None], ['0813.40', None, None, '-Other fruit', 'WO', None, None], ['0813.50', None, None, '-Mixtures of nuts or dried fruits of this Chapter', 'WO', None, None], ['0814', None, None, 'Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including\nwatermelons), fresh, frozen, dried or provisionally\npreserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other\npreservative solutions.', '', None, None], ['0814.00', None, None, '-Peel of citrus fruit or melons (including\nwatermelons), fresh, frozen, dried or provisionally\npreserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other\npreservative solutions.', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 09', None, None, 'Coffee, Tea, Maté and Spices', '', None, None], ['0901', None, None, 'Coffee, whether or not roasted or decaffeinated;\ncoffee husks and skins; coffee substitutes\ncontaining coffee in any proportion.', '', None, None], ['0901.1', None, None, '-Coffee, not roasted:', '', None, None], ['0901.11', None, None, '--Not decaffeinated', 'WO', None, None], ['0901.12', None, None, '--Decaffeinated', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0901.2', None, None, '-Coffee roasted:', '', None, None], ['0901.21', None, None, '--Not decaffeinated', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0901.22', None, None, '--Decaffeinated', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0901.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0902', None, None, 'Tea, whether or not flavoured.', '', None, None], ['0902.10', None, None, '-Green tea (not fermented) in immediate packings of\na content not exceeding 3 kg', 'WO', None, None], ['0902.20', None, None, '-Other green tea (not fermented)', 'WO', None, None], ['0902.30', None, None, '-Black tea (fermented) and partly fermented tea, in\nimmediate packings of a content not exceeding 3 kg', 'WO', None, None], ['0902.40', None, None, '-Other black tea (fermented) and other partly\nfermented tea', 'WO', None, None], ['0903', None, None, 'Maté.', '', None, None], ['0903.00', None, None, '-Maté.', 'WO', None, None], ['0904', None, None, 'Pepper of the genus Piper; dried or crushed or\nground fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the\ngenus Pimenta.', '', None, None], ['0904.1', None, None, '-Pepper:', '', None, None], ['0904.11', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0904.12', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0904.2', None, None, '-Fruits of the genus Capsicum or of the genus\nPimenta:', '', None, None], ['0904.21', None, None, '--Dried, neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0904.22', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0905', None, None, 'Vanilla.', '', None, None], ['0905.10', None, None, '-Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0905.20', None, None, '-Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0906', None, None, 'Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers.', '', None, None], ['0906.1', None, None, '-Neither crushed nor ground:', '', None, None], ['0906.11', None, None, '--Cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylanicum Blume)', 'WO', None, None], ['0906.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['0906.20', None, None, '-Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0907', None, None, 'Cloves (Whole fruit, cloves and stems).', '', None, None], ['0907.10', None, None, '-Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0907.20', None, None, '-Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908', None, None, 'Nutmeg, mace and cardamoms.', '', None, None], ['0908.1', None, None, '-Nutmeg:', '', None, None], ['0908.11', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908.12', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908.2', None, None, '-Mace:', '', None, None], ['0908.21', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908.22', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908.3', None, None, '-Cardamoms:', '', None, None], ['0908.31', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0908.32', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909', None, None, 'Seeds of anise, badian, fennel, coriander, cumin or\ncaraway; juniper berries.', '', None, None], ['0909.2', None, None, '-Seeds of coriander:', '', None, None], ['0909.21', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909.22', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909.3', None, None, '-Seeds of cumin:', '', None, None], ['0909.31', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909.32', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909.6', None, None, '-Seeds of anise, badian, caraway or fennel; juniper\nberries:', '', None, None], ['0909.61', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0909.62', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0910', None, None, 'Ginger, saffron, turmeric (curcuma), thyme, bay\nleaves, curry and other spices.', '', None, None], ['0910.1', None, None, '-Ginger:', '', None, None], ['0910.11', None, None, '--Neither crushed nor ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0910.12', None, None, '--Crushed or ground', 'WO', None, None], ['0910.20', None, None, '-Saffron', 'WO', None, None], ['0910.30', None, None, '-Turmeric (curcuma)', 'WO', None, None], ['0910.9', None, None, '-Other spices:', '', None, None], ['0910.91', None, None, '--Mixtures referred to in Note 1 (b) to this Chapter', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['0910.99', None, None, '--Other', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 10', None, None, 'Cereals', '', None, None], ['1001', None, None, 'Wheat and meslin.', '', None, None], ['1001.1', None, None, '-Durum wheat:', '', None, None], ['1001.11', None, None, '--Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1001.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1001.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1001.91', None, None, '--Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1001.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1002', None, None, 'Rye.', '', None, None], ['1002.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1002.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1003', None, None, 'Barley.', '', None, None], ['1003.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1003.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1004', None, None, 'Oats.', '', None, None], ['1004.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1004.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1005', None, None, 'Maize (corn).', '', None, None], ['1005.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1005.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1006', None, None, 'Rice.', '', None, None], ['1006.10', None, None, '-Rice in the husk (paddy or rough)', 'WO', None, None], ['1006.20', None, None, '-Husked (brown) rice', 'WO', None, None], ['1006.30', None, None, '-Semi-milled or wholly milled rice, whether or not\npolished or glazed', 'WO', None, None], ['1006.40', None, None, '-Broken rice', 'WO', None, None], ['1007', None, None, 'Grain sorghum.', '', None, None], ['1007.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1007.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1008', None, None, 'Buckwheat, millet and canary seeds; other cereals.', '', None, None], ['1008.10', None, None, '-Buckwheat', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.2', None, None, '-Millet:', '', None, None], ['1008.21', None, None, '--Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.30', None, None, '-Canary seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.40', None, None, '-Fonio (Digitaria spp.)', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.50', None, None, '-Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa)', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.60', None, None, '-Triticale', 'WO', None, None], ['1008.90', None, None, '-Other cereals', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 11', None, None, 'Products of the Milling Industry; Malt; Starches;\nInulin; Wheat Gluten', '', None, None], ['1101', None, None, 'Wheat or meslin flour.', '', None, None], ['1101.00', None, None, '-Wheat or meslin flour.', 'CC', None, None], ['1102', None, None, 'Cereal flours other than of wheat or meslin.', '', None, None], ['1102.20', None, None, '-Maize (corn) flour', 'CC', None, None], ['1102.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC ex 1003, 1006', None, None], ['1103', None, None, 'Cereal groats, meal and pellets.', '', None, None], ['1103.1', None, None, '-Groats and meal :', '', None, None], ['1103.11', None, None, '--Of wheat', 'CC', None, None], ['1103.13', None, None, '--Of maize (corn)', 'CC', None, None], ['1103.19', None, None, '--Of other cereals', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1103.20', None, None, '-Pellets', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1104', None, None, 'Cereal grains otherwise worked (for example,\nhulled, rolled, flaked, pearled, sliced or kibbled),\nexcept rice of heading 10.06; germ of cereals,\nwhole, rolled, flaked or ground.', '', None, None], ['1104.1', None, None, '-Rolled or flaked grains :', '', None, None], ['1104.12', None, None, '--Of oats', 'CC', None, None], ['1104.19', None, None, '--Of other cereals', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1104.2', None, None, '-Other worked grains (for example, hulled,\npearled, sliced or kibbled) :', '', None, None], ['1104.22', None, None, '--Of oats', 'CC', None, None], ['1104.23', None, None, '--Of maize (corn)', 'CC', None, None], ['1104.29', None, None, '--Of other cereals', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1104.30', None, None, '-Germ of cereals, whole, rolled, flaked or ground', 'CC ex 1003, 1006', None, None], ['1105', None, None, 'Flour, meal, powder, flakes, granules and pellets\nof potatoes.', '', None, None], ['1105.10', None, None, '-Flour, meal and powder', 'CC', None, None], ['1105.20', None, None, '-Flakes, granules and pellets', 'CC', None, None], ['1106', None, None, 'Flour, meal and powder of the dried leguminous\nvegetables of heading 07.13, of sago or of roots or\ntubers of heading 07.14 or of the products of\nChapter 08.', '', None, None], ['1106.10', None, None, '-Of the dried leguminous vegetables of heading 07.13', 'CC', None, None], ['1106.20', None, None, '-Of sago or of roots or tubers of heading 07.14', 'CC', None, None], ['1106.30', None, None, '-Of the products of Chapter 08', 'CC', None, None], ['1107', None, None, 'Malt, whether or not roasted.', '', None, None], ['1107.10', None, None, '-Not roasted', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1107.20', None, None, '-Roasted', 'CC ex 10', None, None], ['1108', None, None, 'Starches; inulin.', '', None, None], ['1108.1', None, None, '-Starches :', '', None, None], ['1108.11', None, None, '--Wheat starch', 'CC', None, None], ['1108.12', None, None, '--Maize (corn) starch', 'CC', None, None], ['1108.13', None, None, '--Potato starch', 'CC', None, None], ['1108.14', None, None, '--Manioc (cassava) starch', 'CC', None, None], ['1108.19', None, None, '--Other starches', 'CC', None, None], ['1108.20', None, None, '-Inulin', 'CC', None, None], ['1109', None, None, 'Wheat gluten, whether or not dried.', '', None, None], ['1109.00', None, None, '-Wheat gluten, whether or not dried.', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 12', None, None, 'Oil Seeds and Oleaginous Fruits; Miscellaneous\nGrains, Seeds and Fruit; Industrial or Medicinal\nPlants; Straw and Fodder', '', None, None], ['1201', None, None, 'Soya beans, whether or not broken.', '', None, None], ['1201.10', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1201.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1202', None, None, 'Ground-nuts, not roasted or otherwise cooked,\nwhether or not shelled or broken.', '', None, None], ['1202.30', None, None, '-Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1202.4', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1202.41', None, None, '--In shell', 'WO', None, None], ['1202.42', None, None, '--Shelled, whether or not broken', 'WO', None, None], ['1203', None, None, 'Copra.', '', None, None], ['1203.00', None, None, '-Copra.', 'WO', None, None], ['1204', None, None, 'Linseed, whether or not broken.', '', None, None], ['1204.00', None, None, '-Linseed, whether or not broken.', 'WO', None, None], ['1205', None, None, 'Rape or colza seeds, whether or not broken.', '', None, None], ['1205.10', None, None, '-Low erucic acid rape or colza seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1205.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1206', None, None, 'Sunflower seeds, whether or not broken.', '', None, None], ['1206.00', None, None, '-Sunflower seeds, whether or not broken.', 'WO', None, None], ['1207', None, None, 'Other oil seeds and oleaginous fruits, whether or\nnot broken.', '', None, None], ['1207.10', None, None, '-Palm nuts and kernels', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.2', None, None, '-Cotton seeds:', '', None, None], ['1207.21', None, None, '--Seed', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.30', None, None, '-Castor oil seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.40', None, None, '-Sesamum seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.50', None, None, '-Mustard seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.60', None, None, '-Safflower (Carthamus tinctorius) seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.70', None, None, '-Melon seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1207.91', None, None, '--Poppy seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1207.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1208', None, None, 'Flours and meals of oil seeds or oleaginous fruits,\nother than those of mustard.', '', None, None], ['1208.10', None, None, '-Of soya beans', 'WO', None, None], ['1208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1209', None, None, 'Seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used for sowing.', '', None, None], ['1209.10', None, None, '-Sugar beet seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.2', None, None, '-Seeds of forage plants:', '', None, None], ['1209.21', None, None, '--Lucerne (alfalfa) seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.22', None, None, '--Clover (Trifolium spp.) seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.23', None, None, '--Fescue seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.24', None, None, '--Kentucky blue grass (Poa pratensis L.) seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.25', None, None, '--Rye grass (Lolium multiflorum Lam., Lolium\nperenne L.) seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.30', None, None, '-Seeds of herbaceous plants cultivated principally for\ntheir flowers', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1209.91', None, None, '--Vegetable seeds', 'WO', None, None], ['1209.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1210', None, None, 'Hop cones, fresh or dried, whether or not ground,\npowdered or in the form of pellets; lupulin.', '', None, None], ['1210.10', None, None, '-Hop cones, neither ground nor powdered nor in the\nform of pellets', 'WO', None, None], ['1210.20', None, None, '-Hop cones, ground, powdered or in the form of\npellets; lupulin', 'WO', None, None], ['1211', None, None, 'Plants and parts of plants (including seeds and\nfruits), of a kind used primarily in perfumery, in\npharmacy or for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar\npurposes, fresh, chilled, frozen or dried, whether\nor not cut, crushed or powdered.', '', None, None], ['1211.20', None, None, '-Ginseng roots', 'WO', None, None], ['1211.30', None, None, '-Coca leaf', 'WO', None, None], ['1211.40', None, None, '-Poppy straw', 'WO', None, None], ['1211.50', None, None, '-Ephedra', 'WO', None, None], ['1211.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1212', None, None, 'Locust beans, seaweeds and other algae, sugar\nbeet and sugar cane, fresh, chilled, frozen or\ndried, whether or not ground; fruit stones and\nkernels and other vegetable products (including\nunroasted chicory roots of the variety Cichorium\nintybus sativum) of a kind used primarily for\nhuman consumption, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['1212.2', None, None, '-Seaweeds and other algae:', '', None, None], ['1212.21', None, None, '--Fit for human consumption', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1212.91', None, None, '--Sugar beet', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.92', None, None, '--Locust beans (carob)', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.93', None, None, '--Sugar cane', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.94', None, None, '--Chicory roots', 'WO', None, None], ['1212.99', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1213', None, None, 'Cereal straw and husks, unprepared, whether or\nnot chopped, ground, pressed or in the form of\npellets.', '', None, None], ['1213.00', None, None, '-Cereal straw and husks, unprepared, whether or not\nchopped, ground, pressed or in the form of pellets.', 'WO', None, None], ['1214', None, None, 'Swedes, mangolds, fodder roots, hay, lucerne\n(alfalfa), clover, sainfoin, forage kale, lupines,\nvetches and similar forage products, whether or\nnot in the form of pellets.', '', None, None], ['1214.10', None, None, '-Lucerne (alfalfa) meal and pellets', 'WO', None, None], ['1214.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['Chapter 13', None, None, 'Lac; Gums, Resins and Other Vegetable Saps and\nExtracts', '', None, None], ['1301', None, None, 'Lac; natural gums, resins, gum-resins and\noleoresins (for example, balsams).', '', None, None], ['1301.20', None, None, '-Gum Arabic', 'CC', None, None], ['1301.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['1302', None, None, 'Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances,\npectinates and pectates; agar-agar and other\nmucilages and thickeners, whether or not\nmodified, derived from vegetable products.', '', None, None], ['1302.1', None, None, '-Vegetable saps and extracts:', '', None, None], ['1302.11', None, None, '--Opium', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.12', None, None, '--Of liquorice', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.13', None, None, '--Of hops', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.14', None, None, '--Of ephedra', 'CC ex 1211.20', None, None], ['1302.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC ex 1211.20', None, None], ['1302.20', None, None, '-Pectic substances, pectinates and pectates', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.3', None, None, '-Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not\nmodified, derived from vegetable products:', '', None, None], ['1302.31', None, None, '--Agar-agar', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.32', None, None, '--Mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified,\nderived from locust beans, locust bean seeds or guar\nseeds', 'CC', None, None], ['1302.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 14', None, None, 'Vegetable Plaiting Materials; Vegetable Products\nNot Elsewhere Specified or Included', '', None, None], ['1401', None, None, 'Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily for\nplaiting (for example, bamboos, rattans, reeds,\nrushes, osier, raffia, cleaned, bleached or dyed\ncereal straw, and lime bark).', '', None, None], ['1401.10', None, None, '-Bamboos', 'WO', None, None], ['1401.20', None, None, '-Rattans', 'WO', None, None], ['1401.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1404', None, None, 'Vegetable products not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['1404.20', None, None, '-Cotton linters', 'WO', None, None], ['1404.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['SECTION III -ANIMAL OR VEGETABLE FATS AND OILS AND THEIR\nCLEAVAGE PRODUCTS; PREPARED EDIBLE FATS; ANIMAL OR\nVEGETABLE WAXES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 15', None, None, 'Animal or Vegetable Fats and Oils and their\nCleavage Products; Prepared Edible Fats; Animal\nor Vegetable Waxes', '', None, None], ['1501', None, None, 'Pig fat (including lard) and poultry fat, other than\nthat of heading 02.09 or 15.03.', '', None, None], ['1501.10', None, None, '-Lard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1501.20', None, None, '-Other pig fat', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1501.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1502', None, None, 'Fats of bovine animals, sheep or goats, other than\nthose of heading 15.03.', '', None, None], ['1502.10', None, None, '-Tallow', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1502.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1503', None, None, 'Lard stearin, lard oil, oleostearin, oleo-oil and\ntallow oil, not emulsified or mixed or otherwise\nprepared.', '', None, None], ['1503.00', None, None, '-Lard stearin, lard oil, oleostearin, oleo-oil and tallow\noil, not emulsified or mixed or otherwise prepared.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1504', None, None, 'Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish or marine\nmammals, whether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1504.10', None, None, '-Fish-liver oils and their fractions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1504.20', None, None, '-Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish, other than\nliver oils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1504.30', None, None, '-Fats and oils and their fractions, of marine mammals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1505', None, None, 'Wool grease and fatty substances derived\ntherefrom (including lanolin).', '', None, None], ['1505.00', None, None, '-Wool grease and fatty substances derived therefrom\n(including lanolin).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1506', None, None, 'Other animal fats and oils and their fractions,\nwhether or not refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', None, None], ['1506.00', None, None, '-Other animal fats and oils and their fractions,\nwhether or not refined, but not chemically modified.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1507', None, None, 'Soya-bean oil and its fractions, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1507.10', None, None, '-Crude oil, whether or not degummed', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1507.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1508', None, None, 'Ground-nut oil and its fractions, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1508.10', None, None, '-Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1508.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1509', None, None, 'Olive oil and its fractions, whether or not refined,\nbut not chemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1509.10', None, None, '-Virgin', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1509.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1510', None, None, 'Other oils and their fractions, obtained solely\nfrom olives, whether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified, including blends of these oils\nor fractions with oils or fractions of heading 15.09.', '', None, None], ['1510.00', None, None, '-Other oils and their fractions, obtained solely from\nolives, whether or not refined, but not chemically\nmodified, including blends of these oils or fractions\nwith oils or fractions of heading 15.09.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1511', None, None, 'Palm oil and its fractions, whether or not refined,\nbut not chemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1511.10', None, None, '-Crude oil', 'WO', None, None], ['1511.90', None, None, '-Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1512', None, None, 'Sunflower-seed, safflower or cotton-seed oil and\nfractions thereof, whether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1512.1', None, None, '-Sunflower-seed or safflower oil and fractions\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['1512.11', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1512.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1512.2', None, None, '-Cotton-seed oil and its fractions:', '', None, None], ['1512.21', None, None, '--Crude oil, whether or not gossypol has been\nremoved', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1512.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1513', None, None, 'Coconut (copra), palm kernel or babassu oil and\nfractions thereof, whether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1513.1', None, None, '-Coconut (copra)oil and its fractions:', '', None, None], ['1513.11', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'WO', None, None], ['1513.19', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1513.2', None, None, '-Palm kernel or babassu oil and fractions thereof:', '', None, None], ['1513.21', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'WO', None, None], ['1513.29', None, None, '--Other', 'WO', None, None], ['1514', None, None, 'Rape, colza or mustard oil and fractions thereof,\nwhether or not refined, but not chemically\nmodified.', '', None, None], ['1514.1', None, None, '-Low erucic acid rape or colza oil and its\nfractions:', '', None, None], ['1514.11', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1514.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1514.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1514.91', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1514.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515', None, None, 'Other fixed vegetable fats and oils (including\njojoba oil) and their fractions, whether or not', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'refined, but not chemically modified.', '', None, None], ['1515.1', None, None, '-Linseed oil and its fractions:', '', None, None], ['1515.11', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515.2', None, None, '-Maize (corn)oil and its fractions:', '', None, None], ['1515.21', None, None, '--Crude oil', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515.30', None, None, '-Castor oil and its fractions', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1515.50', None, None, '-Sesame oil and its fractions', 'WO', None, None], ['1515.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1516', None, None, 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their\nfractions, partly or wholly hydrogenated, inter-\nesterified, re-esterified or elaidinised, whether or\nnot refined, but not further prepared.', '', None, None], ['1516.10', None, None, '-Animal fats and oils and their fractions', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1516.20', None, None, '-Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1517', None, None, 'Margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of\nanimal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of\ndifferent fats or oils of this Chapter, other than\nedible fats or oils or their fractions of heading\n15.16.', '', None, None], ['1517.10', None, None, '-Margarine, excluding liquid margarine', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1517.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1518', None, None, 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their\nfractions, boiled, oxidised, dehydrated,\nsulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in\nvacuum or in inert gas or otherwise chemically\nmodified, excluding those of heading 15.16;\ninedible mixtures or preparations of animal or\nvegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different\nfats or oils of this Chapter, not elsewhere specified\nor included.', '', None, None], ['1518.00', None, None, '-Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions,\nboiled, oxidised, dehydrated, sulphurised, blown,\npolymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert gas or\notherwise chemically modified, excluding those of\nheading 15.16; inedible mixtures or preparations of\nanimal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of\ndifferent fats or oils of this Chapter, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', 'CC', None, None], ['1520', None, None, 'Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and glycerol lyes.', '', None, None], ['1520.00', None, None, '-Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and glycerol lyes.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1521', None, None, 'Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides),\nbeeswax, other insect waxes and spermaceti,\nwhether or not refined or coloured.', '', None, None], ['1521.10', None, None, '-Vegetable waxes', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1521.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1522', None, None, 'Degras; residues resulting from the treatment of\nfatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes.', '', None, None], ['1522.00', None, None, '-Degras; residues resulting from the treatment of fatty\nsubstances or animal or vegetable waxes.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION IV - PREPARED FOODSTUFFS; BEVERAGES, SPIRITS AND\nVINEGAR; TOBACCO AND MANUFACTURED TOBACCO SUBSTITUTES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 16', None, None, 'Preparations of Meat, of Fish or of Crustaceans,\nMolluscs or Other Aquatic Invertebrates', '', None, None], ['1601', None, None, 'Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal\nor blood; food preparations based on these\nproducts.', '', None, None], ['1601.00', None, None, '-Sausages and similar products, of meat, meat offal or\nblood; food preparations based on these products.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602', None, None, 'Other prepared or preserved meat, meat offal or\nblood.', '', None, None], ['1602.10', None, None, '-Homogenised preparations', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.20', None, None, '-Of liver of any animal', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.3', None, None, '-Of poultry of heading 01.05:', '', None, None], ['1602.31', None, None, '--Of turkeys', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.32', None, None, '--Of fowls of the species Gallus domesticus', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.4', None, None, '-Of swine:', '', None, None], ['1602.41', None, None, '--Hams and cuts thereof', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.42', None, None, '--Shoulders and cuts thereof', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.49', None, None, '--Other, including mixtures', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.50', None, None, '-Of bovine animals', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1602.90', None, None, '-Other, including preparations of blood of any animal', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1603', None, None, 'Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates.', '', None, None], ['1603.00', None, None, '-Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604', None, None, 'Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar\nsubstitutes prepared from fish eggs.', '', None, None], ['1604.1', None, None, '-Fish, whole or in pieces, but not minced:', '', None, None], ['1604.11', None, None, '--Salmon', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.12', None, None, '--Herrings', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.13', None, None, '--Sardines, sardinella and brisling or sprats', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.14', None, None, '--Tunas, skipjack and bonito (Sarda spp.)', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.15', None, None, '--Mackerel', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.16', None, None, '--Anchovies', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.17', None, None, '--Eels', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.18', None, None, '--Shark fins', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.20', None, None, '-Other prepared or preserved fish', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.3', None, None, '-Caviar and caviar substitutes:', '', None, None], ['1604.31', None, None, '--Caviar', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1604.32', None, None, '--Caviar substitutes', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605', None, None, 'Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic\ninvertebrates, prepared or preserved.', '', None, None], ['1605.10', None, None, '-Crab', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.2', None, None, '-Shrimps and prawns:', '', None, None], ['1605.21', None, None, '--Not in airtight container', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.30', None, None, '-Lobster', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.40', None, None, '-Other crustaceans', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.5', None, None, '-Molluscs:', '', None, None], ['1605.51', None, None, '--Oysters', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.52', None, None, '--Scallops, including queen scallops', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.53', None, None, '--Mussels', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.54', None, None, '--Cuttle fish and squid', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.55', None, None, '--Octopus', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.56', None, None, '--Clams, cockles and arkshells', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.57', None, None, '--Abalone', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.58', None, None, '--Snails, other than sea snails', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.6', None, None, '-Other aquatic invertebrates:', '', None, None], ['1605.61', None, None, '--Sea cucumbers', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.62', None, None, '--Sea urchins', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.63', None, None, '--Jellyfish', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1605.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 17', None, None, 'Sugars and Sugar Confectionery', '', None, None], ['1701', None, None, 'Cane or beet sugar and chemically pure sucrose,\nin solid form.', '', None, None], ['1701.1', None, None, '-Raw sugar not containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter:', '', None, None], ['1701.12', None, None, '--Beet sugar', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1701.13', None, None, '--Cane sugar specified in Subheading Note 2 to this\nChapter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1701.14', None, None, '--Other cane sugar', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1701.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['1701.91', None, None, '--Containing added flavouring or colouring matter', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1701.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702', None, None, 'Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose,\nmaltose, glucose and fructose, in solid form; sugar\nsyrups not containing added flavouring or\ncolouring matter; artificial honey, whether or not\nmixed with natural honey; caramel.', '', None, None], ['1702.1', None, None, '-Lactose and lactose syrup:', '', None, None], ['1702.11', None, None, '--Containing by weight 99 % or more lactose,\nexpressed as anhydrous lactose, calculated on the dry\nmatter', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.20', None, None, '-Maple sugar and maple syrup', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.30', None, None, '-Glucose and glucose syrup, not containing fructose\nor containing in the dry state less than 20 % by\nweight of fructose', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.40', None, None, '-Glucose and glucose syrup, containing in the dry\nstate at least 20 % but less than 50 % by weight of\nfructose, excluding invert sugar', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.50', None, None, '-Chemically pure fructose', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.60', None, None, '-Other fructose and fructose syrup, containing in the\ndry state more than 50 % by weight of fructose,\nexcluding invert sugar', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1702.90', None, None, '-Other, including invert sugar and other sugar and\nsugar syrup blends containing in the dry state 50 %\nby weight of fructose', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1703', None, None, 'Molasses resulting from the extraction or refining\nof sugar.', '', None, None], ['1703.10', None, None, '-Cane molasses', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1703.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1704', None, None, 'Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate),\nnot containing cocoa.', '', None, None], ['1704.10', None, None, '-Chewing gum, whether or not sugar-coated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1704.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 18', None, None, 'Cocoa and Cocoa Preparations', '', None, None], ['1801', None, None, 'Cocoa beans, whole or broken, raw or roasted.', '', None, None], ['1801.00', None, None, '-Cocoa beans, whole or broken, raw or roasted.', 'CC', None, None], ['1802', None, None, 'Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other cocoa waste.', '', None, None], ['1802.00', None, None, '-Cocoa shells, husks, skins and other cocoa waste.', 'CC', None, None], ['1803', None, None, 'Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted.', '', None, None], ['1803.10', None, None, '-Not defatted', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1803.20', None, None, '-Wholly or partly defatted', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1804', None, None, 'Cocoa butter, fat and oil.', '', None, None], ['1804.00', None, None, '-Cocoa butter, fat and oil.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1805', None, None, 'Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter.', '', None, None], ['1805.00', None, None, '-Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1806', None, None, 'Chocolate and other food preparations containing\ncocoa.', '', None, None], ['1806.10', None, None, '-Cocoa powder, containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1806.20', None, None, '-Other preparations in blocks, slabs or bars weighing\nmore than 2 kg or in liquid, paste, powder, granular\nor other bulk form in containers or immediate\npackings, of a content exceeding 2 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1806.3', None, None, '-Other, in blocks, slabs or bars:', '', None, None], ['1806.31', None, None, '--Filled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1806.32', None, None, '--Not filled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1806.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 19', None, None, "Preparations of Cereals, Flour, Starch or Milk;\nPastrycooks' Products", '', None, None], ['1901', None, None, 'Malt extract; food preparations of flour, groats,\nmeal, starch or malt extract, not containing cocoa\nor containing less than 40 % by weight of cocoa\ncalculated on a totally defatted basis, not\nelsewhere specified or included; food preparations\nof goods of headings 04.01 to 04.04, not containing\ncocoa or containing less than 5 % by weight of\ncocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['1901.10', None, None, '-Preparations suitable for infants or young children,\nput up for retail sale', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1901.20', None, None, "-Mixes and doughs for the preparation of bakers'\nwares of heading 19.05", 'CC', None, None], ['1901.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1902', None, None, 'Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with\nmeat or other substances) or otherwise prepared,\nsuch as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne,\ngnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or\nnot prepared.', '', None, None], ['1902.1', None, None, '-Uncooked pasta, not stuffed or otherwise\nprepared:', '', None, None], ['1902.11', None, None, '--Containing eggs', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1902.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1902.20', None, None, '-Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or otherwise\nprepared', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1902.30', None, None, '-Other pasta', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1902.40', None, None, '-Couscous', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1903', None, None, 'Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from\nstarch, in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, siftings\nor in similar forms.', '', None, None], ['1903.00', None, None, '-Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from\nstarch, in the form of flakes, grains, pearls, siftings or\nin similar forms.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1904', None, None, 'Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or\nroasting of cereals or cereal products (for\nexample, corn flakes); cereals (other than maize\n(corn)) in grain form or in the form of flakes or\nother worked grains (except flour, groats and\nmeal), pre-cooked, or otherwise prepared, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['1904.10', None, None, '-Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting\nof cereals or cereal products', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1904.20', None, None, '-Prepared foods obtained from unroasted cereal\nflakes or from mixtures of unroasted cereal flakes and\nroasted cereal flakes or swelled cereals', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1904.30', None, None, '-Bulgur wheat', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1904.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905', None, None, "Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers'\nwares, whether or not containing cocoa;\ncommunion wafers, empty cachets of a kind\nsuitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers,", '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'rice paper and similar products.', '', None, None], ['1905.10', None, None, '-Crispbread', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905.20', None, None, '-Gingerbread and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905.3', None, None, '-Sweet biscuits; waffles and wafers:', '', None, None], ['1905.31', None, None, '--Sweet biscuits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905.32', None, None, '--Waffles and wafers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905.40', None, None, '-Rusks, toasted bread and similar toasted products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['1905.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 20', None, None, 'Preparations of Vegetables, Fruit, Nuts or Other\nParts of Plants', '', None, None], ['2001', None, None, 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts of\nplants, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic\nacid.', '', None, None], ['2001.10', None, None, '-Cucumbers and gherkins', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2001.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2002', None, None, 'Tomatoes prepared or preserved otherwise than\nby vinegar or acetic acid.', '', None, None], ['2002.10', None, None, '-Tomatoes, whole or in pieces', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2002.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2003', None, None, 'Mushrooms and truffles, prepared or preserved\notherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid.', '', None, None], ['2003.10', None, None, '-Mushrooms of the genus Agaricus', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2003.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2004', None, None, 'Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise\nthan by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen, other than\nproducts of heading 20.06.', '', None, None], ['2004.10', None, None, '-Potatoes', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2004.90', None, None, '-Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005', None, None, 'Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise\nthan by vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen, other\nthan products of heading 20.06.', '', None, None], ['2005.10', None, None, '-Homogenised vegetables', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.20', None, None, '-Potatoes', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.40', None, None, '-Peas (Pisum sativum)', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.5', None, None, '-Beans (Vigna spp., Phaseolus spp.):', '', None, None], ['2005.51', None, None, '--Beans, shelled', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.60', None, None, '-Asparagus', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.70', None, None, '-Olives', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.80', None, None, '-Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saCCharata)', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.9', None, None, '-Other vegetables and mixtures of vegetables:', '', None, None], ['2005.91', None, None, '--Bamboo shoots', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2005.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2006', None, None, 'Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'of plants, preserved by sugar (drained, glacé or\ncrystallised).', '', None, None], ['2006.00', None, None, '-Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of\nplants, preserved by sugar (drained, glacé or\ncrystallised).', 'CC', None, None], ['2007', None, None, 'Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut purée\nand fruit or nut pastes, obtained by cooking,\nwhether or not containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter.', '', None, None], ['2007.10', None, None, '-Homogenised preparations', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2007.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2007.91', None, None, '--Citrus fruit', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2007.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008', None, None, 'Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants,\notherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not\ncontaining added sugar or other sweetening\nmatter or spirit, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['2008.1', None, None, '-Nuts, ground-nuts and other seeds, whether or\nnot mixed together:', '', None, None], ['2008.11', None, None, '--Ground-nuts', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.19', None, None, '--Other, including mixtures', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.20', None, None, '-Pineapples', 'CC', None, None], ['2008.30', None, None, '-Citrus fruit', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.40', None, None, '-Pears', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.50', None, None, '-Apricots', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.60', None, None, '-Cherries', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.70', None, None, '-Peaches, including nectarines', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.80', None, None, '-Strawberries', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.9', None, None, '-Other, including mixtures other than those of\nsubheading 2008.19:', '', None, None], ['2008.91', None, None, '--Palm hearts', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.93', None, None, '--Cranberries (Vaccinium macrocarpon, Vaccinium\noxycoccos, Vaccinium vitis-idaea)', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.97', None, None, '--Mixtures', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2008.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009', None, None, 'Fruit juices (including grape must) and vegetable\njuices, unfermented and not containing added\nspirit, whether or not containing added sugar or\nother sweetening matter.', '', None, None], ['2009.1', None, None, '-Orange juice:', '', None, None], ['2009.11', None, None, '--Frozen', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.12', None, None, '--Not frozen, of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.2', None, None, '-Grapefruit (including pomelo) juice:', '', None, None], ['2009.21', None, None, '--Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.3', None, None, '-Juice of any other single citrus fruit:', '', None, None], ['2009.31', None, None, '--Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.4', None, None, '-Pineapple juice:', '', None, None], ['2009.41', None, None, '--Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.50', None, None, '-Tomato juice', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.6', None, None, '-Grape juice (including grape must):', '', None, None], ['2009.61', None, None, '--Of a Brix value not exceeding 30', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.7', None, None, '-Apple juice:', '', None, None], ['2009.71', None, None, '--Of a Brix value not exceeding 20', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.8', None, None, '-Juice of any other single fruit or vegetable:', '', None, None], ['2009.81', None, None, '--Cranberries (Vaccinium macrocarpon, Vaccinium\noxycoccos, Vaccinium vitis-idaea) juice', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2009.90', None, None, '-Mixtures of juices', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 21', None, None, 'Miscellaneous Edible Preparations', '', None, None], ['2101', None, None, 'Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee, tea\nor maté and preparations with a basis of these\nproducts or with a basis of coffee, tea or maté;\nroasted chicory and other roasted coffee\nsubstitutes, and extracts, essences and\nconcentrates thereof.', '', None, None], ['2101.1', None, None, '-Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee,\nand preparations with a basis of these extracts,\nessences or concentrates or with a basis of coffee:', '', None, None], ['2101.11', None, None, '--Extracts, essences and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2101.12', None, None, '--Preparations with a basis of extracts, essences or\nconcentrates or with a basis of coffee', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2101.20', None, None, '-Extracts, essences and concentrates, of tea or maté,\nand preparations with a basis of these extracts,\nessences or concentrates or with a basis of tea or maté', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2101.30', None, None, '-Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes,\nand extracts, essences and concentrates thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2102', None, None, 'Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-cell micro-\norganisms, dead (but not including vaccines of\nheading 30.02); prepared baking powders.', '', None, None], ['2102.10', None, None, '-Active yeasts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2102.20', None, None, '-Inactive yeasts; other single-cell micro-organisms,\ndead', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2102.30', None, None, '-Prepared baking powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2103', None, None, 'Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed\ncondiments and mixed seasonings; mustard flour\nand meal and prepared mustard.', '', None, None], ['2103.10', None, None, '-Soya sauce', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2103.20', None, None, '-Tomato ketchup and other tomato sauces', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2103.30', None, None, '-Mustard flour and meal and prepared mustard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2103.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2104', None, None, 'Soups and broths and preparations therefor;\nhomogenised composite food preparations.', '', None, None], ['2104.10', None, None, '-Soups and broths and preparations therefor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2104.20', None, None, '-Homogenised composite food preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2105', None, None, 'Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not\ncontaining cocoa.', '', None, None], ['2105.00', None, None, '-Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not\ncontaining cocoa.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2106', None, None, 'Food preparations not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['2106.10', None, None, '-Protein concentrates and textured protein substances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2106.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH ex 1211.20,\n1212.21, 1302.19', None, None], ['Chapter 22', None, None, 'Beverages, Spirits and Vinegar', '', None, None], ['2201', None, None, 'Waters, including natural or artificial mineral\nwaters and aerated waters, not containing added\nsugar or other sweetening matter nor flavoured;\nice and snow.', '', None, None], ['2201.10', None, None, '-Mineral waters and aerated waters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2201.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2202', None, None, 'Waters, including mineral waters and aerated\nwaters, containing added sugar or other\nsweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-\nalcoholic beverages, not including fruit or\nvegetable juices of heading 20.09.', '', None, None], ['2202.10', None, None, '-Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters,\ncontaining added sugar or other sweetening matter or\nflavoured', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2202.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2202.91', None, None, '--Non-alcoholic beer', 'CTH ex 1211.20,\n1302.19 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2202.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 1211.20,\n1302.19 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2203', None, None, 'Beer made from malt.', '', None, None], ['2203.00', None, None, '-Beer made from malt.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2204', None, None, 'Wine of fresh grapes, including fortified wines;\ngrape must other than that of heading 20.09.', '', None, None], ['2204.10', None, None, '-Sparkling wine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2204.2', None, None, '-Other wine; grape must with fermentation\nprevented or arrested by the addition of alcohol :', '', None, None], ['2204.21', None, None, '--In containers holding 2 ℓ or less', 'CTSH ex 2204.22,\n2204.29', None, None], ['2204.22', None, None, '--In containers holding more than 2 ℓ but not more\nthan 10 ℓ', 'CTSH ex 2204.21,\n2204.29', None, None], ['2204.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH ex 2204.21,\n2204.22', None, None], ['2204.30', None, None, '-Other grape must', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2205', None, None, 'Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes\nflavoured with plants or aromatic substances.', '', None, None], ['2205.10', None, None, '-In containers holding 2 ℓ or less', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2205.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2206', None, None, 'Other fermented beverages (for example, cider,\nperry, mead, saké); mixtures of fermented\nbeverages and mixtures of fermented beverages\nand non-alcoholic beverages, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', None, None], ['2206.00', None, None, '-Other fermented beverages (for example, cider,\nperry, mead, saké); mixtures of fermented beverages\nand mixtures of fermented beverages and non-\nalcoholic beverages, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2207', None, None, 'Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength\nby volume of 80 % vol. or higher; ethyl alcohol\nand other spirits, denatured, of any strength.', '', None, None], ['2207.10', None, None, '-Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength\nby volume of 80 % vol. or higher', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2207.20', None, None, '-Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any\nstrength', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208', None, None, 'Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength\nby volume of less than 80 % vol.; spirits, liqueurs\nand other spirituous beverages.', '', None, None], ['2208.20', None, None, '-Spirits obtained by distilling grape wine or grape\nmarc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.30', None, None, '-Whiskies', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.40', None, None, '-Rum and other spirits obtained by distilling\nfermented sugar-cane products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.50', None, None, '-Gin and Geneva', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.60', None, None, '-Vodka', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.70', None, None, '-Liqueurs and cordials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2209', None, None, 'Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar obtained from', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'acetic acid.', '', None, None], ['2209.00', None, None, '-Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar obtained from\nacetic acid.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 23', None, None, 'Residues and Waste from the Food Industries;\nPrepared Animal Fodder', '', None, None], ['2301', None, None, 'Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal, of\nfish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic\ninvertebrates, unfit for human consumption;\ngreaves.', '', None, None], ['2301.10', None, None, '-Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal;\ngreaves', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2301.20', None, None, '-Flours, meals and pellets, of fish or of crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2302', None, None, 'Bran, sharps and other residues, whether or not in\nthe form of pellets, derived from the sifting,\nmilling or other working of cereals or of\nleguminous plants.', '', None, None], ['2302.10', None, None, '-Of maize (corn)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2302.30', None, None, '-Of wheat', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2302.40', None, None, '-Of other cereals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2302.50', None, None, '-Of leguminous plants', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2303', None, None, 'Residues of starch manufacture and similar\nresidues, beet-pulp, bagasse and other waste of\nsugar manufacture, brewing or distilling dregs\nand waste, whether or not in the form of pellets.', '', None, None], ['2303.10', None, None, '-Residues of starch manufacture and similar residues', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2303.20', None, None, '-Beet-pulp, bagasse and other waste of sugar\nmanufacture', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2303.30', None, None, '-Brewing or distilling dregs and waste', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2304', None, None, 'Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not\nground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of soyabean oil.', '', None, None], ['2304.00', None, None, '-Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not\nground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of soyabean oil.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2305', None, None, 'Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not\nground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of ground-nut oil.', '', None, None], ['2305.00', None, None, '-Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not\nground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of ground-nut oil.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306', None, None, 'Oil-cake and other solid residues, whether or not\nground or in the form of pellets, resulting from the\nextraction of vegetable fats or oils, other than\nthose of heading 23.04 or 23.05.', '', None, None], ['2306.10', None, None, '-Of cotton seeds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.20', None, None, '-Of linseed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.30', None, None, '-Of sunflower seeds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.4', None, None, '-Of rape or colza seeds:', '', None, None], ['2306.41', None, None, '--Of low erucic acid rape or colza seeds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.50', None, None, '-Of coconut or copra', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.60', None, None, '-Of palm nuts or kernels', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2306.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2307', None, None, 'Wine lees; argol.', '', None, None], ['2307.00', None, None, '-Wine lees; argol.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2308', None, None, 'Vegetable materials and vegetable waste,\nvegetable residues and by-products, whether or\nnot in the form of pellets, of a kind used in animal\nfeeding, not elsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['2308.00', None, None, '-Vegetable materials and vegetable waste, vegetable\nresidues and by-products, whether or not in the form\nof pellets, of a kind used in animal feeding, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2309', None, None, 'Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding.', '', None, None], ['2309.10', None, None, '-Dog or cat food, put up for retail sale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2309.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 24', None, None, 'Tobacco and Manufactured Tobacco Substitutes', '', None, None], ['2401', None, None, 'Unmanufactured Tobacco; Tobacco refuse.', '', None, None], ['2401.10', None, None, '-Tobacco, not stemmed/stripped', 'CC', None, None], ['2401.20', None, None, '-Tobacco, partly or wholly stemmed/stripped', 'CC', None, None], ['2401.30', None, None, '-Tobacco refuse', 'CC', None, None], ['2402', None, None, 'Cigars, cheroots, cigarillos and cigarettes, of\ntobacco or of tobacco substitutes.', '', None, None], ['2402.10', None, None, '-Cigars, cheroots and cigarillos, containing tobacco', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2402.20', None, None, '-Cigarettes containing tobacco', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2402.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2403', None, None, 'Other manufactured tobacco and manufactured\ntobacco substitutes; "homogenised" or\n"reconstituted" tobacco; tobacco extracts and\nessences.', '', None, None], ['2403.1', None, None, '-Smoking tobacco, whether or not containing\ntobacco substitutes in any proportion:', '', None, None], ['2403.11', None, None, '--Water pipe tobacco specified in Subheading Note 1', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'to this Chapter', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2403.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2403.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2403.91', None, None, '--"Homogenised" or "reconstituted" tobacco', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2403.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION V - MINERAL PRODUCTS', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 25', None, None, 'Salt; Sulphur; Earths and Stone; Plastering\nMaterials, Lime and Cement', '', None, None], ['2501', None, None, 'Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) and\npure sodium chloride, whether or not in aqueous\nsolution or containing added anti-caking or free-\nflowing agents; sea water.', '', None, None], ['2501.00', None, None, '-Salt (including table salt and denatured salt) and\npure sodium chloride, whether or not in aqueous\nsolution or containing added anti-caking or free-\nflowing agents; sea water.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2502', None, None, 'Unroasted iron pyrites.', '', None, None], ['2502.00', None, None, '-Unroasted iron pyrites.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2503', None, None, 'Sulphur of all kinds, other than sublimed sulphur,\nprecipitated sulphur and colloidal sulphur.', '', None, None], ['2503.00', None, None, '-Sulphur of all kinds, other than sublimed sulphur,\nprecipitated sulphur and colloidal sulphur.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2504', None, None, 'Natural graphite.', '', None, None], ['2504.10', None, None, '-In powder or in flakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2504.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2505', None, None, 'Natural sands of all kinds, whether or not\ncoloured, other than metalbearing sands of\nChapter 26.', '', None, None], ['2505.10', None, None, '-Silica sands and quartz sands', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2505.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2506', None, None, 'Quartz (other than natural sands); quartzite,\nwhether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by\nsawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape.', '', None, None], ['2506.10', None, None, '-Quartz', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2506.20', None, None, '-Quartzite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2507', None, None, 'Kaolin and other kaolinic clays, whether or not\ncalcined.', '', None, None], ['2507.00', None, None, '-Kaolin and other kaolinic clays, whether or not\ncalcined.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508', None, None, 'Other clays (not including expanded clays of', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'heading 68.06), andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite,\nwhether or not calcined; mullite; chamotte or\ndinas earths.', '', None, None], ['2508.10', None, None, '-Bentonite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508.30', None, None, '-Fire-clay', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508.40', None, None, '-Other clays', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508.50', None, None, '-Andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508.60', None, None, '-Mullite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2508.70', None, None, '-Chamotte or dinas earths', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2509', None, None, 'Chalk.', '', None, None], ['2509.00', None, None, '-Chalk.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2510', None, None, 'Natural calcium phosphates, natural aluminium\ncalcium phosphates and phosphatic chalk.', '', None, None], ['2510.10', None, None, '-Unground', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2510.20', None, None, '-Ground', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2511', None, None, 'Natural barium sulphate (barytes); natural\nbarium carbonate (witherite), whether or not\ncalcined, other than barium oxide of heading\n28.16.', '', None, None], ['2511.10', None, None, '-Natural barium sulphate (barytes)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2511.20', None, None, '-Natural barium carbonate (witherite)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2512', None, None, 'Siliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr,\ntripolite and diatomite) and similar siliceous\nearths, whether or not calcined, of an apparent\nspecific gravity of 1 or less.', '', None, None], ['2512.00', None, None, '-Siliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr,\ntripolite and diatomite) and similar siliceous earths,\nwhether or not calcined, of an apparent specific\ngravity of 1 or less.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2513', None, None, 'Pumice stone; emery; natural corundum, natural\ngarnet and other natural abrasives, whether or\nnot heat-treated.', '', None, None], ['2513.10', None, None, '-Pumice stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2513.20', None, None, '-Emery, natural corundum, natural garnet and other\nnatural abrasives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2514', None, None, 'Slate, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely\ncut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of\na rectangular (including square) shape.', '', None, None], ['2514.00', None, None, '-Slate, whether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut,', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2515', None, None, 'Marble, travertine, ecaussine and other calcareous\nmonumental or building stone of an apparent\nspecific gravity of 2.5 or more, and alabaster,\nwhether or not roughly trimmed or merely cut, by\nsawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of a\nrectangular (including square) shape.', '', None, None], ['2515.1', None, None, '-Marble and travertine:', '', None, None], ['2515.11', None, None, '--Crude or roughly trimmed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2515.12', None, None, '--Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or\nslabs of a rectangular (including square) shape', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2515.20', None, None, '-Ecaussine and other calcareous monumental or\nbuilding stone; alabaster', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2516', None, None, 'Granite, porphyry, basalt, sandstone and other\nmonumental or building stone, whether or not\nroughly trimmed or merely cut, by sawing or\notherwise, into blocks or slabs of a rectangular\n(including square) shape.', '', None, None], ['2516.1', None, None, '-Granite:', '', None, None], ['2516.11', None, None, '--Crude or roughly trimmed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2516.12', None, None, '--Merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or\nslabs of a rectangular (including square) shape', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2516.20', None, None, '-Sandstone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2516.90', None, None, '-Other monumental or building stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2517', None, None, 'Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed stone, of a kind\ncommonly used for concrete aggregates, for road\nmetalling or for railway or other ballast, shingle\nand flint, whether or not heat-treated; macadam\nof slag, dross or similar industrial waste, whether\nor not incorporating the materials cited in the first\npart of the heading; tarred macadam; granules,\nchippings and powder, of stones of heading 25.15\nor 25.16, whether or not heat-treated.', '', None, None], ['2517.10', None, None, '-Pebbles, gravel, broken or crushed stone, of a kind\ncommonly used for concrete aggregates, for road\nmetalling or for railway or other ballast, shingle and\nflint, whether or not heat-treated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2517.20', None, None, '-Macadam of slag, dross or similar industrial waste,\nwhether or not incorporating the materials cited in\nsubheading 2517.10', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2517.30', None, None, '-Tarred macadam', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2517.4', None, None, '-Granules, chippings and powder, of stones of\nheading 25.15 or 25.16, whether or not heat-\ntreated:', '', None, None], ['2517.41', None, None, '--Of marble', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2517.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2518', None, None, 'Dolomite, whether or not calcined or sintered,\nincluding dolomite roughly trimmed or merely\ncut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks or slabs of\na rectangular (including square) shape; dolomite\nramming mix.', '', None, None], ['2518.10', None, None, '-Dolomite, not calcined or sintered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2518.20', None, None, '-Calcined or sintered dolomite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2518.30', None, None, '-Dolomite ramming mix', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2519', None, None, 'Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite); fused\nmagnesia; dead-burned (sintered) magnesia,\nwhether or not containing small quantities of\nother oxides added before sintering; other\nmagnesium oxide, whether or not pure.', '', None, None], ['2519.10', None, None, '-Natural magnesium carbonate (magnesite)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2519.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2520', None, None, 'Gypsum; anhydrite; plasters (consisting of\ncalcined gypsum or calcium sulphate) whether or\nnot coloured, with or without small quantities of\naccelerators or retarders.', '', None, None], ['2520.10', None, None, '-Gypsum; anhydrite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2520.20', None, None, '-Plasters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2521', None, None, 'Limestone flux; limestone and other calcareous\nstone, of a kind used for the manufacture of lime\nor cement.', '', None, None], ['2521.00', None, None, '-Limestone flux; limestone and other calcareous\nstone, of a kind used for the manufacture of lime or\ncement.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2522', None, None, 'Quicklime, slaked lime and hydraulic lime, other\nthan calcium oxide and hydroxide of heading\n28.25.', '', None, None], ['2522.10', None, None, '-Quicklime', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2522.20', None, None, '-Slaked lime', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2522.30', None, None, '-Hydraulic lime', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2523', None, None, 'Portland cement, aluminous cement, slag cement,\nsupersulphate cement and similar hydraulic\ncements, whether or not coloured or in the form of\nclinkers.', '', None, None], ['2523.10', None, None, '-Cement clinkers', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2523.2', None, None, '-Portland cement:', '', None, None], ['2523.21', None, None, '--White cement, whether or not artificially coloured', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2523.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2523.30', None, None, '-Aluminous cement', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2523.90', None, None, '-Other hydraulic cements', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2524', None, None, 'Asbestos.', '', None, None], ['2524.10', None, None, '-Crocidolite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2524.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2525', None, None, 'Mica, including splittings; mica waste.', '', None, None], ['2525.10', None, None, '-Crude mica and mica rifted into sheets or splittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2525.20', None, None, '-Mica powder', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2525.30', None, None, '-Mica waste', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2526', None, None, 'Natural steatite, whether or not roughly trimmed\nor merely cut, by sawing or otherwise, into blocks\nor slabs of a rectangular (including square) shape;\ntalc.', '', None, None], ['2526.10', None, None, '-Not crushed, not powdered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2526.20', None, None, '-Crushed or powdered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2528', None, None, 'Natural borates and concentrates thereof\n(whether or not calcined), but not including\nborates separated from natural brine; natural\nboric acid containing not more than 85 % of\nH BO calculated on the dry weight.\n3 3', '', None, None], ['2528.00', None, None, '-Natural borates and concentrates thereof (whether or\nnot calcined), but not including borates separated\nfrom natural brine; natural boric acid containing not\nmore than 85 % of H BO calculated on the dry\n3 3\nweight.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2529', None, None, 'Feldspar; leucite; nepheline and nepheline syenite;\nfluorspar.', '', None, None], ['2529.10', None, None, '-Feldspar', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2529.2', None, None, '-Fluorspar:', '', None, None], ['2529.21', None, None, '--Containing by weight 97 % or less of calcium\nfluoride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2529.22', None, None, '--Containing by weight more than 97 % of calcium\nfluoride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2529.30', None, None, '-Leucite; nepheline and nepheline syenite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2530', None, None, 'Mineral substances not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['2530.10', None, None, '-Vermiculite, perlite and chlorites, unexpanded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2530.20', None, None, '-Kieserite, epsomite (natural magnesium sulphates)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2530.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 26', None, None, 'Ores, Slag and Ash', '', None, None], ['2601', None, None, 'Iron ores and concentrates, including roasted iron\npyrites.', '', None, None], ['2601.1', None, None, '-Iron ores and concentrates, other than roasted\niron pyrites:', '', None, None], ['2601.11', None, None, '--Non-agglomerated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2601.12', None, None, '--Agglomerated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2601.20', None, None, '-Roasted iron pyrites', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2602', None, None, 'Manganese ores and concentrates, including\nferruginous manganese ores and concentrates\nwith a manganese content of 20 % or more,\ncalculated on the dry weight.', '', None, None], ['2602.00', None, None, '-Manganese ores and concentrates, including\nferruginous manganese ores and concentrates with a\nmanganese content of 20 % or more, calculated on\nthe dry weight.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2603', None, None, 'Copper ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2603.00', None, None, '-Copper ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2604', None, None, 'Nickel ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2604.00', None, None, '-Nickel ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2605', None, None, 'Cobalt ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2605.00', None, None, '-Cobalt ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2606', None, None, 'Aluminium ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2606.00', None, None, '-Aluminium ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2607', None, None, 'Lead ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2607.00', None, None, '-Lead ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2608', None, None, 'Zinc ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2608.00', None, None, '-Zinc ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2609', None, None, 'Tin ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2609.00', None, None, '-Tin ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2610', None, None, 'Chromium ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2610.00', None, None, '-Chromium ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2611', None, None, 'Tungsten ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2611.00', None, None, '-Tungsten ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2612', None, None, 'Uranium or thorium ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2612.10', None, None, '-Uranium ores and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2612.20', None, None, '-Thorium ores and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2613', None, None, 'Molybdenum ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2613.10', None, None, '-Roasted', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2613.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2614', None, None, 'Titanium ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2614.00', None, None, '-Titanium ores and concentrates.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2615', None, None, 'Niobium, tantalum, vanadium or zirconium ores\nand concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2615.10', None, None, '-Zirconium ores and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2615.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2616', None, None, 'Precious metal ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2616.10', None, None, '-Silver ores and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2616.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2617', None, None, 'Other ores and concentrates.', '', None, None], ['2617.10', None, None, '-Antimony ores and concentrates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2617.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2618', None, None, 'Granulated slag (slag sand) from the manufacture\nof iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['2618.00', None, None, '-Granulated slag (slag sand) from the manufacture of\niron or steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2619', None, None, 'Slag, dross (other than granulated slag), scalings\nand other waste from the manufacture of iron or\nsteel.', '', None, None], ['2619.00', None, None, '-Slag, dross (other than granulated slag), scalings and\nother waste from the manufacture of iron or steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620', None, None, 'Slag, ash and residues (other than from the\nmanufacture of iron or steel) containing metals,\narsenic or their compounds.', '', None, None], ['2620.1', None, None, '-Containing mainly zinc:', '', None, None], ['2620.11', None, None, '--Hard zinc spelter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.2', None, None, '-Containing mainly lead:', '', None, None], ['2620.21', None, None, '--Leaded gasoline sludges and leaded anti-knock\ncompound sludges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.30', None, None, '-Containing mainly copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.40', None, None, '-Containing mainly aluminium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.60', None, None, '-Containing arsenic, mercury, thallium or their\nmixtures, of a kind used for the extraction of arsenic\nor those metals or for the manufacture of their\nchemical compounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2620.91', None, None, '--Containing antimony, beryllium, cadmium,\nchromium or their mixtures', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2620.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2621', None, None, 'Other slag and ash, including seaweed ash (kelp);\nash and residues from the incineration of\nmunicipal waste.', '', None, None], ['2621.10', None, None, '-Ash and residues from the incineration of municipal\nwaste', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2621.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 27', None, None, 'Mineral Fuels, Mineral Oils and Products of their\nDistillation; Bituminous Substances; Mineral\nWaxes', '', None, None], ['2701', None, None, 'Coal; briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels\nmanufactured from coal.', '', None, None], ['2701.1', None, None, '-Coal, whether or not pulverised, but not\nagglomerated:', '', None, None], ['2701.11', None, None, '--Anthracite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2701.12', None, None, '--Bituminous coal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2701.19', None, None, '--Other coal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2701.20', None, None, '-Briquettes, ovoids and similar solid fuels\nmanufactured from coal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2702', None, None, 'Lignite, whether or not agglomerated, excluding\njet.', '', None, None], ['2702.10', None, None, '-Lignite, whether or not pulverised, but not\nagglomerated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2702.20', None, None, '-Agglomerated lignite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2703', None, None, 'Peat (including peat litter), whether or not\nagglomerated.', '', None, None], ['2703.00', None, None, '-Peat (including peat litter), whether or not\nagglomerated.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2704', None, None, 'Coke and semi-coke of coal, of lignite or of peat,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'whether or not agglomerated; retort carbon.', '', None, None], ['2704.00', None, None, '-Coke and semi-coke of coal, of lignite or of peat,\nwhether or not agglomerated; retort carbon.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2705', None, None, 'Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and similar\ngases, other than petroleum gases and other\ngaseous hydrocarbons.', '', None, None], ['2705.00', None, None, '-Coal gas, water gas, producer gas and similar gases,\nother than petroleum gases and other gaseous\nhydrocarbons.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2706', None, None, 'Tar distilled from coal, from lignite or from peat,\nand other mineral tars, whether or not dehydrated\nor partially distilled, including reconstituted tars.', '', None, None], ['2706.00', None, None, '-Tar distilled from coal, from lignite or from peat,\nand other mineral tars, whether or not dehydrated or\npartially distilled, including reconstituted tars.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707', None, None, 'Oils and other products of the distillation of high\ntemperature coal tar; similar products in which\nthe weight of the aromatic constituents exceeds\nthat of the non-aromatic constituents.', '', None, None], ['2707.10', None, None, '-Benzol (benzene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.20', None, None, '-Toluol (toluene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.30', None, None, '-Xylol (xylenes)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.40', None, None, '-Naphthalene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.50', None, None, '-Other aromatic hydrocarbon mixtures of which 65 %\nor more by volume (including losses) distils at\n250 °C by the ISO 3405 method (equivalent to the\nASTM D 86 method).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2707.91', None, None, '--Creosote oils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2707.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2708', None, None, 'Pitch and pitch coke, obtained from coal tar or\nfrom other mineral tars.', '', None, None], ['2708.10', None, None, '-Pitch', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2708.20', None, None, '-Pitch coke', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2709', None, None, 'Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals, crude.', '', None, None], ['2709.00', None, None, '-Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals, crude.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2710', None, None, 'Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals, other than crude; preparations not\nelsewhere specified or included, containing by\nweight 70 % or more of petroleum oils or of oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals, these oils', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'being the basic constituents of the preparations;\nwaste oils.', '', None, None], ['2710.1', None, None, '-Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals(other than crude) and preparations not\nelsewhere specified or included, containing by\nweight 70 % or more of petroleum oils or of oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals, these oils\nbeing the basic constituents of the preparations,\nother than those containing biodiesel and other\nthan waste oils:', '', None, None], ['2710.12', None, None, '--Light oils and preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2710.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2710.20', None, None, '-Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bituminous\nminerals (other than crude) and preparations not\nelsewhere specified or included, containing by weight\n70 % or more of petroleum oils or of oils obtained\nfrom bituminous minerals, these oils being the basic\nconstituents of the preparations, containing biodiesel\nand other than waste oils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2710.9', None, None, '-Waste oils:', '', None, None], ['2710.91', None, None, '--Containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs),\npolychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) or polybrominated\nbiphenyls (PBBs)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2710.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711', None, None, 'Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons.', '', None, None], ['2711.1', None, None, '-Liquefied:', '', None, None], ['2711.11', None, None, '--Natural gas', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.12', None, None, '--Propane', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.13', None, None, '--Butanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.14', None, None, '--Ethylene, propylene, butylene and butadiene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.2', None, None, '-In gaseous state:', '', None, None], ['2711.21', None, None, '--Natural gas', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2711.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2712', None, None, 'Petroleum jelly; paraffin wax, micro-crystalline\npetroleum wax, slack wax, ozokerite, lignite wax,\npeat wax, other mineral waxes, and similar\nproducts obtained by synthesis or by other\nprocesses, whether or not coloured.', '', None, None], ['2712.10', None, None, '-Petroleum jelly', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2712.20', None, None, '-Paraffin wax containing by weight less than 0.75 %\nof oil', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2712.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2713', None, None, 'Petroleum coke, petroleum bitumen and other\nresidues of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals.', '', None, None], ['2713.1', None, None, '-Petroleum coke:', '', None, None], ['2713.11', None, None, '--Not calcined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2713.12', None, None, '--Calcined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2713.20', None, None, '-Petroleum bitumen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2713.90', None, None, '-Other residues of petroleum oils or of oils obtained\nfrom bituminous minerals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2714', None, None, 'Bitumen and asphalt, natural; bituminous or oil\nshale and tar sands; asphaltites and asphaltic\nrocks.', '', None, None], ['2714.10', None, None, '-Bituminous or oil shale and tar sands', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2714.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2715', None, None, 'Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, on\nnatural bitumen, on petroleum bitumen, on\nmineral tar or on mineral tar pitch (for example,\nbituminous mastics, cut-backs).', '', None, None], ['2715.00', None, None, '-Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, on\nnatural bitumen, on petroleum bitumen, on mineral\ntar or on mineral tar pitch (for example, bituminous\nmastics, cut-backs).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2716', None, None, 'Electrical energy.', '', None, None], ['2716.00', None, None, '-Electrical energy.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION VI - PRODUCTS OF THE CHEMICAL OR ALLIED INDUSTRIES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 28', None, None, 'Inorganic Chemicals; Organic or Inorganic\nCompounds of Precious Metals, of Rare-earth\nMetals, of Radioactive Elements or of Isotopes', '', None, None], ['2801', None, None, 'Fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine.', '', None, None], ['2801.10', None, None, '-Chlorine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2801.20', None, None, '-Iodine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2801.30', None, None, '-Fluorine; bromine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2802', None, None, 'Sulphur, sublimed or precipitated; colloidal\nsulphur.', '', None, None], ['2802.00', None, None, '-Sulphur, sublimed or precipitated; colloidal sulphur.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2803', None, None, 'Carbon (carbon blacks and other forms of carbon\nnot elsewhere specified or included).', '', None, None], ['2803.00', None, None, '-Carbon (carbon blacks and other forms of carbon not\nelsewhere specified or included).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804', None, None, 'Hydrogen, rare gases and other non-metals.', '', None, None], ['2804.10', None, None, '-Hydrogen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.2', None, None, '-Rare gases:', '', None, None], ['2804.21', None, None, '--Argon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.30', None, None, '-Nitrogen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.40', None, None, '-Oxygen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.50', None, None, '-Boron; tellurium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.6', None, None, '-Silicon:', '', None, None], ['2804.61', None, None, '--Containing by weight not less than 99.99 % of\nsilicon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.70', None, None, '-Phosphorus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.80', None, None, '-Arsenic', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2804.90', None, None, '-Selenium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2805', None, None, 'Alkali or alkaline-earth metals; rare-earth metals,\nscandium and yttrium, whether or not intermixed\nor interalloyed; mercury.', '', None, None], ['2805.1', None, None, '-Alkali or alkaline-earth metals:', '', None, None], ['2805.11', None, None, '--Sodium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2805.12', None, None, '--Calcium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2805.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2805.30', None, None, '-Rare-earth metals, scandium and yttrium, whether or\nnot intermixed or interalloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2805.40', None, None, '-Mercury', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2806', None, None, 'Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid);\nchlorosulphuric acid.', '', None, None], ['2806.10', None, None, '-Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2806.20', None, None, '-Chlorosulphuric acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2807', None, None, 'Sulphuric acid; oleum.', '', None, None], ['2807.00', None, None, '-Sulphuric acid; oleum.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2808', None, None, 'Nitric acid; sulphonitric acids.', '', None, None], ['2808.00', None, None, '-Nitric acid; sulphonitric acids.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2809', None, None, 'Diphosphorus pentaoxide; phosphoric acid;\npolyphosphoric acids, whether or not chemically\ndefined.', '', None, None], ['2809.10', None, None, '-Diphosphorus pentaoxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2809.20', None, None, '-Phosphoric acid and polyphosphoric acids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2810', None, None, 'Oxides of boron; boric acids.', '', None, None], ['2810.00', None, None, '-Oxides of boron; boric acids.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811', None, None, 'Other inorganic acids and other inorganic oxygen\ncompounds of non-metals.', '', None, None], ['2811.1', None, None, '-Other inorganic acids:', '', None, None], ['2811.11', None, None, '--Hydrogen fluoride (hydrofluoric acid)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811.12', None, None, '--Hydrogen cyanide (hydrocyanic acid)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811.2', None, None, '-Other inorganic oxygen compounds of non-\nmetals:', '', None, None], ['2811.21', None, None, '--Carbon dioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811.22', None, None, '--Silicon dioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2811.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812', None, None, 'Halides and halide oxides of non-metals.', '', None, None], ['2812.1', None, None, '-Chlorides and chloride oxides:', '', None, None], ['2812.11', None, None, '--Carbonyl dichloride (phosgene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.12', None, None, '--Phosphorus oxychloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.13', None, None, '--Phosphorus trichloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.14', None, None, '--Phosphorus pentachloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.15', None, None, '--Sulphur monochloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.16', None, None, '--Sulphur dichloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.17', None, None, '--Thionyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2812.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2813', None, None, 'Sulphides of non-metals; commercial phosphorus\ntrisulphide.', '', None, None], ['2813.10', None, None, '-Carbon disulphide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2813.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2814', None, None, 'Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solution.', '', None, None], ['2814.10', None, None, '-Anhydrous ammonia', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2814.20', None, None, '-Ammonia in aqueous solution', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2815', None, None, 'Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda); potassium\nhydroxide (caustic potash); peroxides of sodium or\npotassium.', '', None, None], ['2815.1', None, None, '-Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda):', '', None, None], ['2815.11', None, None, '--Solid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2815.12', None, None, '--In aqueous solution (soda lye or liquid soda)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2815.20', None, None, '-Potassium hydroxide (caustic potash)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2815.30', None, None, '-Peroxides of sodium or potassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2816', None, None, 'Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium; oxides,\nhydroxides and peroxides, of strontium or barium.', '', None, None], ['2816.10', None, None, '-Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2816.40', None, None, '-Oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of strontium or\nbarium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2817', None, None, 'Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide.', '', None, None], ['2817.00', None, None, '-Zinc oxide; zinc peroxide.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2818', None, None, 'Artificial corundum, whether or not chemically\ndefined; aluminium oxide; aluminium hydroxide.', '', None, None], ['2818.10', None, None, '-Artificial corundum, whether or not chemically\ndefined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2818.20', None, None, '-Aluminium oxide, other than artificial corundum', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2818.30', None, None, '-Aluminium hydroxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2819', None, None, 'Chromium oxides and hydroxides.', '', None, None], ['2819.10', None, None, '-Chromium trioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2819.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2820', None, None, 'Manganese oxides.', '', None, None], ['2820.10', None, None, '-Manganese dioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2820.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2821', None, None, 'Iron oxides and hydroxides; earth colours\ncontaining 70 % or more by weight of combined\niron evaluated as Fe O .\n2 3', '', None, None], ['2821.10', None, None, '-Iron oxides and hydroxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2821.20', None, None, '-Earth colours', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2822', None, None, 'Cobalt oxides and hydroxides; commercial cobalt\noxides.', '', None, None], ['2822.00', None, None, '-Cobalt oxides and hydroxides; commercial cobalt\noxides.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2823', None, None, 'Titanium oxides.', '', None, None], ['2823.00', None, None, '-Titanium oxides.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2824', None, None, 'Lead oxides; red lead and orange lead.', '', None, None], ['2824.10', None, None, '-Lead monoxide (litharge, massicot)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2824.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825', None, None, 'Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic\nsalts; other inorganic bases; other metal oxides,\nhydroxides and peroxides.', '', None, None], ['2825.10', None, None, '-Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic\nsalts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.20', None, None, '-Lithium oxide and hydroxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.30', None, None, '-Vanadium oxides and hydroxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.40', None, None, '-Nickel oxides and hydroxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.50', None, None, '-Copper oxides and hydroxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.60', None, None, '-Germanium oxides and zirconium dioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.70', None, None, '-Molybdenum oxides and hydroxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.80', None, None, '-Antimony oxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2825.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2826', None, None, 'Fluorides; fluorosilicates, fluoroaluminates and\nother complex fluorine salts.', '', None, None], ['2826.1', None, None, '-Fluorides:', '', None, None], ['2826.12', None, None, '--Of aluminium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2826.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2826.30', None, None, '-Sodium hexafluoroaluminate (synthetic cryolite)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2826.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827', None, None, 'Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloride\nhydroxides; bromides and bromide oxides; iodides\nand iodide oxides.', '', None, None], ['2827.10', None, None, '-Ammonium chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.20', None, None, '-Calcium chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.3', None, None, '-Other chlorides:', '', None, None], ['2827.31', None, None, '--Of magnesium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.32', None, None, '--Of aluminium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.35', None, None, '--Of nickel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.4', None, None, '-Chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides:', '', None, None], ['2827.41', None, None, '--Of copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.5', None, None, '-Bromides and bromide oxides:', '', None, None], ['2827.51', None, None, '--Bromides of sodium or of potassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2827.60', None, None, '-Iodides and iodide oxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2828', None, None, 'Hypochlorites; commercial calcium hypochlorite;\nchlorites; hypobromites.', '', None, None], ['2828.10', None, None, '-Commercial calcium hypochlorite and other calcium\nhypochlorites', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2828.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2829', None, None, 'Chlorates and perchlorates; bromates and\nperbromates; iodates and periodates.', '', None, None], ['2829.1', None, None, '-Chlorates:', '', None, None], ['2829.11', None, None, '--Of sodium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2829.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2829.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2830', None, None, 'Sulphides; polysulphides, whether or not\nchemically defined.', '', None, None], ['2830.10', None, None, '-Sodium sulphides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2830.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2831', None, None, 'Dithionites and sulphoxylates.', '', None, None], ['2831.10', None, None, '-Of sodium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2831.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2832', None, None, 'Sulphites; thiosulphates.', '', None, None], ['2832.10', None, None, '-Sodium sulphites', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2832.20', None, None, '-Other sulphites', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2832.30', None, None, '-Thiosulphates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833', None, None, 'Sulphates; alums; peroxosulphates (persulphates).', '', None, None], ['2833.1', None, None, '-Sodium sulphates:', '', None, None], ['2833.11', None, None, '--Disodium sulphate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.2', None, None, '-Other sulphates:', '', None, None], ['2833.21', None, None, '--Of magnesium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.22', None, None, '--Of aluminium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.24', None, None, '--Of nickel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.25', None, None, '--Of copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.27', None, None, '--Of barium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.30', None, None, '-Alums', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2833.40', None, None, '-Peroxosulphates (persulphates)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2834', None, None, 'Nitrites; nitrates.', '', None, None], ['2834.10', None, None, '-Nitrites', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2834.2', None, None, '-Nitrates:', '', None, None], ['2834.21', None, None, '--Of potassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2834.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835', None, None, 'Phosphinates (hypophosphites), phosphonates\n(phosphites) and phosphates; polyphosphates,\nwhether or not chemically defined.', '', None, None], ['2835.10', None, None, '-Phosphinates (hypophosphites) and phosphonates\n(phosphites)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.2', None, None, '-Phosphates:', '', None, None], ['2835.22', None, None, '--Of mono- or disodium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.24', None, None, '--Of potassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.25', None, None, '--Calcium hydrogenorthophosphate ("dicalcium\nphosphate")', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.26', None, None, '--Other phosphates of calcium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.3', None, None, '-Polyphosphates:', '', None, None], ['2835.31', None, None, '--Sodium triphosphate (sodium tripolyphosphate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2835.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836', None, None, 'Carbonates; peroxocarbonates (percarbonates);\ncommercial ammonium carbonate containing\nammonium carbamate.', '', None, None], ['2836.20', None, None, '-Disodium carbonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.30', None, None, '-Sodium hydrogencarbonate (sodium bicarbonate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.40', None, None, '-Potassium carbonates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.50', None, None, '-Calcium carbonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.60', None, None, '-Barium carbonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2836.91', None, None, '--Lithium carbonates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.92', None, None, '--Strontium carbonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2836.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2837', None, None, 'Cyanides, cyanide oxides and complex cyanides.', '', None, None], ['2837.1', None, None, '-Cyanides and cyanide oxides:', '', None, None], ['2837.11', None, None, '--Of sodium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2837.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2837.20', None, None, '-Complex cyanides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2839', None, None, 'Silicates; commercial alkali metal silicates.', '', None, None], ['2839.1', None, None, '-Of sodium:', '', None, None], ['2839.11', None, None, '--Sodium metasilicates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2839.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2839.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2840', None, None, 'Borates; peroxoborates (perborates).', '', None, None], ['2840.1', None, None, '-Disodium tetraborate (refined borax):', '', None, None], ['2840.11', None, None, '--Anhydrous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2840.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2840.20', None, None, '-Other borates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2840.30', None, None, '-Peroxoborates (perborates)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841', None, None, 'Salts of oxometallic or peroxometallic acids.', '', None, None], ['2841.30', None, None, '-Sodium dichromate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.50', None, None, '-Other chromates and dichromates; peroxochromates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.6', None, None, '-Manganites, manganates and permanganates:', '', None, None], ['2841.61', None, None, '--Potassium permanganate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.70', None, None, '-Molybdates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.80', None, None, '-Tungstates (wolframates)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2841.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2842', None, None, 'Other salts of inorganic acids or peroxoacids\n(including aluminosilicates whether or not\nchemically defined), other than azides.', '', None, None], ['2842.10', None, None, '-Double or complex silicates, including\naluminosilicates whether or not chemically defined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2842.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2843', None, None, 'Colloidal precious metals; inorganic or organic\ncompounds of precious metals, whether or not\nchemically defined; amalgams of precious metals.', '', None, None], ['2843.10', None, None, '-Colloidal precious metals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2843.2', None, None, '-Silver compounds:', '', None, None], ['2843.21', None, None, '--Silver nitrate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2843.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2843.30', None, None, '-Gold compounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2843.90', None, None, '-Other compounds; amalgams', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2844', None, None, 'Radioactive chemical elements and radioactive\nisotopes (including the fissile or fertile chemical\nelements and isotopes) and their compounds;\nmixtures and residues containing these products.', '', None, None], ['2844.10', None, None, '-Natural uranium and its compounds; alloys,', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'dispersions (including cermets), ceramic products and\nmixtures containing natural uranium or natural\nuranium compounds', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2844.20', None, None, '-Uranium enriched in U 235 and its compounds;\nplutonium and its compounds; alloys, dispersions\n(including cermets), ceramic products and mixtures\ncontaining uranium enriched in U 235, plutonium or\ncompounds of these products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2844.30', None, None, '-Uranium depleted in U 235 and its compounds;\nthorium and its compounds; alloys, dispersions\n(including cermets), ceramic products and mixtures\ncontaining uranium depleted in U 235, thorium or\ncompounds of these products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2844.40', None, None, '-Radioactive elements and isotopes and compounds\nother than those of subheading 2844.10, 2844.20 or\n2844.30; alloys, dispersions (including cermets),\nceramic products and mixtures containing these\nelements, isotopes or compounds; radioactive\nresidues', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2844.50', None, None, '-Spent (irradiated) fuel elements (cartridges) of\nnuclear reactors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2845', None, None, 'Isotopes other than those of heading 28.44;\ncompounds, inorganic or organic, of such isotopes,\nwhether or not chemically defined.', '', None, None], ['2845.10', None, None, '-Heavy water (deuterium oxide)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2845.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2846', None, None, 'Compounds, inorganic or organic, of rare-earth\nmetals, of yttrium or of scandium or of mixtures\nof these metals.', '', None, None], ['2846.10', None, None, '-Cerium compounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2846.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2847', None, None, 'Hydrogen peroxide, whether or not solidified with\nurea.', '', None, None], ['2847.00', None, None, '-Hydrogen peroxide, whether or not solidified with\nurea.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2849', None, None, 'Carbides, whether or not chemically defined.', '', None, None], ['2849.10', None, None, '-Of calcium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2849.20', None, None, '-Of silicon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2849.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2850', None, None, 'Hydrides, nitrides, azides, silicides and borides,\nwhether or not chemically defined, other than\ncompounds which are also carbides of heading\n28.49.', '', None, None], ['2850.00', None, None, '-Hydrides, nitrides, azides, silicides and borides,', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'whether or not chemically defined, other than\ncompounds which are also carbides of heading 28.49.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2852', None, None, 'Inorganic or organic compounds of mercury,\nwhether or not chemically defined, excluding\namalgams.', '', None, None], ['2852.10', None, None, '-Chemically defined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2852.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2853', None, None, 'Phosphides, whether or not chemically defined,\nexcluding ferrophosphorus; Other inorganic\ncompounds (including distilled or conductivity\nwater and water of similar purity); liquid air\n(whether or not rare gases have been removed);\ncompressed air; amalgams, other than amalgams\nof precious metals.', '', None, None], ['2853.10', None, None, '-Cyanogen chloride (chlorcyan)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2853.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 29', None, None, 'Organic Chemicals', '', None, None], ['2901', None, None, 'Acyclic hydrocarbons.', '', None, None], ['2901.10', None, None, '-Saturated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2901.2', None, None, '-Unsaturated:', '', None, None], ['2901.21', None, None, '--Ethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2901.22', None, None, '--Propene (propylene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2901.23', None, None, '--Butene (butylene) and isomers thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2901.24', None, None, '--Buta1,3-diene and isoprene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2901.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902', None, None, 'Cyclic hydrocarbons.', '', None, None], ['2902.1', None, None, '-Cyclanes, cyclenes and cycloterpenes:', '', None, None], ['2902.11', None, None, '--Cyclohexane', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.20', None, None, '-Benzene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.30', None, None, '-Toluene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.4', None, None, '-Xylenes:', '', None, None], ['2902.41', None, None, '--o-Xylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.42', None, None, '--m-Xylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.43', None, None, '--p-Xylene', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.44', None, None, '--Mixed xylene isomers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.50', None, None, '-Styrene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.60', None, None, '-Ethylbenzene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.70', None, None, '-Cumene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2902.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903', None, None, 'Halogenated derivatives of hydrocarbons.', '', None, None], ['2903.1', None, None, '-Saturated chlorinated derivatives of acyclic\nhydrocarbons:', '', None, None], ['2903.11', None, None, '--Chloromethane (methyl chloride) and chloroethane\n(ethyl chloride)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.12', None, None, '--Dichloromethane (methylene chloride)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.13', None, None, '--Chloroform (trichloromethane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.14', None, None, '--Carbon tetrachloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.15', None, None, '--Ethylene dichloride (ISO) (1,2-dichloroethane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.2', None, None, '-Unsaturated chlorinated derivatives of acyclic\nhydrocarbons:', '', None, None], ['2903.21', None, None, '--Vinyl chloride (chloroethylene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.22', None, None, '--Trichloroethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.23', None, None, '--Tetrachloroethylene (perchloroethylene)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.3', None, None, '-Fluorinated, brominated or iodinated derivatives\nof acyclic hydrocarbons:', '', None, None], ['2903.31', None, None, '--Ethylene dibromide (ISO) (1,2-dibromoethane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.7', None, None, '-Halogenated derivatives of acyclic hydrocarbons\ncontaining two or more different halogens:', '', None, None], ['2903.71', None, None, '--Chlorodifluoromethane', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.72', None, None, '--Dichlorotrifluoroethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.73', None, None, '--Dichlorofluoroethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.74', None, None, '--Chlorodifluoroethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.75', None, None, '--Dichloropentafluoropropanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.76', None, None, '--Bromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane and\ndibromotetrafluoroethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.77', None, None, '--Other, perhalogenated only with fluorine and\nchlorine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.78', None, None, '--Other perhalogenated derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.8', None, None, '-Halogenated derivatives of cyclanic, cyclenic or\ncycloterpenic hydrocarbons:', '', None, None], ['2903.81', None, None, '--1,2,3,4,5,6-Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH (ISO)),\nincluding lindane (ISO, INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.82', None, None, '--Aldrin (ISO), chlordane (ISO) and heptachlor (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.83', None, None, '--Mirex (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.9', None, None, '-Halogenated derivatives of aromatic\nhydrocarbons:', '', None, None], ['2903.91', None, None, '--Chlorobenzene, o-dichlorobenzene and P-\ndichlorobenzene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.92', None, None, '--Hexachlorobenzene (ISO) and DDT (ISO)\n(clofenotane (INN), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-\nchlorophenyl)ethane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.93', None, None, '--Pentachlorobenzene (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.94', None, None, '--Hexabromobiphenyls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2903.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904', None, None, 'Sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of\nhydrocarbons, whether or not halogenated.', '', None, None], ['2904.10', None, None, '-Derivatives containing only sulpho groups, their\nsalts and ethylesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.20', None, None, '-Derivatives containing only nitro or only nitroso\ngroups', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.3', None, None, '-Perfluorooctane sulphonic acid, its salts and\nperfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride:', '', None, None], ['2904.31', None, None, '--Perfluorooctane sulphonic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.32', None, None, '--Ammonium perfluorooctane sulphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.33', None, None, '--Lithium perfluorooctane sulphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.34', None, None, '--Potassium perfluorooctane sulphonate', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.35', None, None, '--Other salts of perfluorooctane sulphonic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.36', None, None, '--Perfluorooctane sulphonyl fluoride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2904.91', None, None, '--Trichloronitromethane (chloropicrin)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2904.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905', None, None, 'Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2905.1', None, None, '-Saturated monohydric alcohols:', '', None, None], ['2905.11', None, None, '--Methanol (methyl alcohol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.12', None, None, '--Propan-1-ol (propyl alcohol) and propan-2-ol\n(isopropyl alcohol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.13', None, None, '--Butan-1-ol (n-butyl alcohol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.14', None, None, '--Other butanols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.16', None, None, '--Octanol (octyl alcohol) and isomers thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.17', None, None, '--Dodecan-1-ol (lauryl alcohol), hexadecan-1-ol\n(cetyl alcohol) and octadecan-1-ol (stearyl alcohol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.2', None, None, '-Unsaturated monohydric alcohols:', '', None, None], ['2905.22', None, None, '--Acyclic terpene alcohols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.3', None, None, '-Diols:', '', None, None], ['2905.31', None, None, '--Ethylene glycol (ethanediol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.32', None, None, '--Propylene glycol (propane-1,2-diol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.4', None, None, '-Other polyhydric alcohols:', '', None, None], ['2905.41', None, None, '--2-Ethyl-2-(hydroxymethyl)propane-1,3-diol\n(trimethylolpropane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.42', None, None, '--Pentaerythritol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.43', None, None, '--Mannitol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.44', None, None, '--D-glucitol (sorbitol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.45', None, None, '--Glycerol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.5', None, None, '-Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives of acyclic alcohols:', '', None, None], ['2905.51', None, None, '--Ethchlorvynol (INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2905.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906', None, None, 'Cyclic alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2906.1', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic:', '', None, None], ['2906.11', None, None, '--Menthol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906.12', None, None, '--Cyclohexanol, methylcyclohexanols and\ndimethylcyclo-hexanols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906.13', None, None, '--Sterols and inositols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906.2', None, None, '-Aromatic:', '', None, None], ['2906.21', None, None, '--Benzyl alcohol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2906.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907', None, None, 'Phenols; phenol-alcohols.', '', None, None], ['2907.1', None, None, '-Monophenols:', '', None, None], ['2907.11', None, None, '--Phenol (hydroxybenzene) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.12', None, None, '--Cresols and their salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.13', None, None, '--Octylphenol, nonylphenol and their isomers; salts\nthereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.15', None, None, '--Naphthols and their salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.2', None, None, '-Polyphenols; phenol-alcohols:', '', None, None], ['2907.21', None, None, '--Resorcinol and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.22', None, None, '--Hydroquinone (quinol) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.23', None, None, "--4,4'-Isopropylidenediphenol (bisphenol A,\ndiphenylolpropane) and its salts", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2907.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2908', None, None, 'Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives of phenols or phenol-alcohols.', '', None, None], ['2908.1', None, None, '-Derivatives containing only halogen substituents\nand their salts:', '', None, None], ['2908.11', None, None, '--Pentachlorophenol (ISO)', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2908.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2908.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2908.91', None, None, '--Dinoseb (ISO) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2908.92', None, None, '--4,6-Dinitro-o-cresol (DNOC (ISO)) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2908.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909', None, None, 'Ethers, ether-alcohols, ether-phenols,\nether-alcohol- phenols, alcohol peroxides, ether\nperoxides, ketone peroxides (whether or not\nchemically defined), and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2909.1', None, None, '-Acyclic ethers and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2909.11', None, None, '--Diethyl ether', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.20', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic ethers and their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.30', None, None, '-Aromatic ethers and their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.4', None, None, '-Ether-alcohols and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2909.41', None, None, "--2,2'-Oxydiethanol (diethylene glycol, digol)", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.43', None, None, '--Monobutyl ethers of ethylene glycol or of\ndiethylene glycol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.44', None, None, '--Other monoalkylethers of ethylene glycol or of\ndiethylene glycol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.50', None, None, '-Ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols and their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2909.60', None, None, '-Alcohol peroxides, ether peroxides, ketone\nperoxides and their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910', None, None, 'Epoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols and\nepoxyethers, with a three-membered ring, and\ntheir halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2910.10', None, None, '-Oxirane (ethylene oxide)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910.20', None, None, '-Methyloxirane (propylene oxide)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910.30', None, None, '-1-Chloro-2,3-epoxypropane (epichlorohydrin)', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910.40', None, None, '-Dieldrin (ISO, INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910.50', None, None, '-Endrin (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2910.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2911', None, None, 'Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or not with\nother oxygen function, and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2911.00', None, None, '-Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or not with other\noxygen function, and their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912', None, None, 'Aldehydes, whether or not with other oxygen\nfunction; cyclic polymers of aldehydes;\nparaformaldehyde.', '', None, None], ['2912.1', None, None, '-Acyclic aldehydes without other oxygen function:', '', None, None], ['2912.11', None, None, '--Methanal (formaldehyde)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.12', None, None, '--Ethanal (acetaldehyde)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.2', None, None, '-Cyclic aldehydes without other oxygen function:', '', None, None], ['2912.21', None, None, '--Benzaldehyde', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.4', None, None, '-Aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers, aldehyde-\nphenols and aldehydes with other oxygen\nfunction:', '', None, None], ['2912.41', None, None, '--Vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxybenzaldehyde)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.42', None, None, '--Ethylvanillin (3-ethoxy-4-hydroxybenzaldehyde)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.50', None, None, '-Cyclic polymers of aldehydes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2912.60', None, None, '-Paraformaldehyde', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2913', None, None, 'Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives of products of heading 29.12.', '', None, None], ['2913.00', None, None, '-Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives of products of heading 29.12.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914', None, None, 'Ketones and quinones, whether or not with other\noxygen function, and their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2914.1', None, None, '-Acyclic ketones without other oxygen function:', '', None, None], ['2914.11', None, None, '--Acetone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.12', None, None, '--Butanone (methyl ethyl ketone)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.13', None, None, '--4-Methylpentan-2-one (methyl isobutyl ketone)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.2', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic ketones\nwithout other oxygen funtion:', '', None, None], ['2914.22', None, None, '--Cyclohexanone and methylcyclohexanones', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.23', None, None, '--Ionones and methylionones', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.3', None, None, '-Aromatic ketones without other oxygen function:', '', None, None], ['2914.31', None, None, '--Phenylacetone (phenylpropan-2-one)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.40', None, None, '-Ketone-alcohols and ketone-aldehydes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.50', None, None, '-Ketone-phenols and ketones with other oxygen\nfunction', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.6', None, None, '-Quinones:', '', None, None], ['2914.61', None, None, '--Anthraquinone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.62', None, None, '--Coenzyme Q10 (ubidecarenone (INN))', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.7', None, None, '-Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2914.71', None, None, '--Chlordecone (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2914.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915', None, None, 'Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids and their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacids;\ntheir halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2915.1', None, None, '-Formic acid, its salts and esters:', '', None, None], ['2915.11', None, None, '--Formic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.12', None, None, '--Salts of formic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.13', None, None, '--Esters of formic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.2', None, None, '-Acetic acid and its salts; acetic anhydride:', '', None, None], ['2915.21', None, None, '--Acetic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.24', None, None, '--Acetic anhydride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.3', None, None, '-Esters of acetic acid:', '', None, None], ['2915.31', None, None, '--Ethyl acetate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.32', None, None, '--Vinyl acetate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.33', None, None, '--n-Butyl acetate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.36', None, None, '--Dinoseb (ISO) acetate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.40', None, None, '-Mono-, di- or trichloroacetic acids, their salts and\nesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.50', None, None, '-Propionic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.60', None, None, '-Butanoic acids, pentanoic acids, their salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.70', None, None, '-Palmitic acid, stearic acid, their salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2915.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916', None, None, 'Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, cyclic\nmonocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides,\nperoxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2916.1', None, None, '-Unsaturated acylic monocarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and\ntheir derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2916.11', None, None, '--Acrylic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.12', None, None, '--Esters of acrylic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.13', None, None, '--Methacrylic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.14', None, None, '--Esters of methacrylic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.15', None, None, '--Oleic, linoleic or linolenic acids, their salts and\nesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.16', None, None, '--Binapacryl (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.20', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic monocarboxylic\nacids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.3', None, None, '-Aromatic monocarboxylic acids, their\nanhydrides, halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'their derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2916.31', None, None, '--Benzoic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.32', None, None, '--Benzoyl peroxide and benzoyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.34', None, None, '--Phenylacetic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2916.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917', None, None, 'Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides,\nperoxides and peroxyacids; their halogenated,\nsulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2917.1', None, None, '-Acyclic polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2917.11', None, None, '--Oxalic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.12', None, None, '--Adipic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.13', None, None, '--Azelaic acid, sebacic acid, their salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.14', None, None, '--Maleic anhydride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.20', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic polycarboxylic\nacids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides,\nperoxyacids and their derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.3', None, None, '-Aromatic polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2917.32', None, None, '--Dioctyl orthophthalates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.33', None, None, '--Dinonyl or didecyl orthophthalates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.34', None, None, '--Other esters of orthophthalic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.35', None, None, '--Phthalic anhydride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.36', None, None, '--Terephthalic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.37', None, None, '--Dimethyl terephthalate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2917.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918', None, None, 'Carboxylic acids with additional oxygen function\nand their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and\nperoxyacids; their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2918.1', None, None, '-Carboxylic acids with alcohol function but\nwithout other oxygen function, their anhydrides,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'halides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2918.11', None, None, '--Lactic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.12', None, None, '--Tartaric acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.13', None, None, '--Salts and esters of tartaric acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.14', None, None, '--Citric acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.15', None, None, '--Salts and esters of citric acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.16', None, None, '--Gluconic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.17', None, None, '--2,2-Diphenyl-2-hydroxyacetic acid (benzilic acid)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.18', None, None, '--Chlorobenzilate (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.2', None, None, '-Carboxylic acids with phenol function but\nwithout other oxygen function, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2918.21', None, None, '--Salicylic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.22', None, None, '--O-Acetylsalicylic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.23', None, None, '--Other esters of salicylic acid and their salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.30', None, None, '-Carboxylic acids with aldehyde or ketone function\nbut without other oxygen function, their anhydrides,\nhalides, peroxides, peroxyacids and their derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2918.91', None, None, '--2,4,5-T (ISO) (2,4,5-trichlorophenoxyacetic acid),\nits salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2918.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2919', None, None, 'Phosphoric esters and their salts, including\nlactophosphates; their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2919.10', None, None, '-Tris (2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2919.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920', None, None, 'Esters of other inorganic acids of non-metals\n(excluding esters of hydrogen halides) and their\nsalts; their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or\nnitrosated derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2920.1', None, None, '-Thiophosphoric esters (phosphorothioates) and\ntheir salts; their halogenated, sulphonated,\nnitrated or nitrosated derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2920.11', None, None, '--Parathion (ISO) and parathion-methyl (ISO)\n(methyl-parathion)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.2', None, None, '-Phosphite esters and their salts; their\nhalogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated\nderivatives:', '', None, None], ['2920.21', None, None, '--Dimethyl phosphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.22', None, None, '--Diethyl phosphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.23', None, None, '--Trimethyl phosphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.24', None, None, '--Triethyl phosphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.30', None, None, '-Endosulfan (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2920.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921', None, None, 'Amine-function compounds.', '', None, None], ['2921.1', None, None, '-Acyclic monoamines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2921.11', None, None, '--Methylamine, di- or trimethylamine and their salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.12', None, None, '--2-(N,N-Dimethylamino)ethylchloride hydrochloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.13', None, None, '--2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethylchloride hydrochloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.14', None, None, '--2-(N,N-Diisopropylamino)ethylchloride\nhydrochloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.2', None, None, '-Acyclic polyamines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2921.21', None, None, '--Ethylenediamine and its salts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.22', None, None, '--Hexamethylenediamine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.30', None, None, '-Cyclanic, cyclenic or cycloterpenic mono- or\npolyamines, and their derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.4', None, None, '-Aromatic monoamines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2921.41', None, None, '--Aniline and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.42', None, None, '--Aniline derivatives and their salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.43', None, None, '--Toluidines and their derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.44', None, None, '--Diphenylamine and its derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.45', None, None, '--1-Naphthylamine (alpha-naphthylamine),\n2-naphthylamine (beta-naphthylamine) and their\nderivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.46', None, None, '--Amfetamine (INN), benzfetamine (INN),\ndexamfetamine (INN), etilamfetamine (INN),\nfencamfamin (INN), lefetamine (INN),\nlevamfetamine (INN), mefenorex (INN) and\nphentermine (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.5', None, None, '-Aromatic polyamines and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2921.51', None, None, '--o-, m-, p-Phenylenediamine, diaminotoluenes, and\ntheir derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2921.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922', None, None, 'Oxygen-function amino-compounds.', '', None, None], ['2922.1', None, None, '-Amino-alcohols, other than those containing\nmore than one kind of oxygen function, their\nethers and esters; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2922.11', None, None, '--Monoethanolamine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.12', None, None, '--Diethanolamine and its salts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.14', None, None, '--Dextropropoxyphene (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.15', None, None, '--Triethanolamine', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.16', None, None, '--Diethanolammonium perfluorooctane sulphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.17', None, None, '--Methyldiethanolamine and ethyldiethanolamine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.18', None, None, '--2-(N,N-Diisopropylamino)ethanol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.2', None, None, '-Amino-naphthols and other amino-phenols, other\nthan those containing more than one kind of\noxygen function, their ethers and esters; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2922.21', None, None, '--Aminohydroxynaphthalenesulphonic acids and their\nsalts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.3', None, None, '-Amino-aldehydes, amino-ketones and amino-', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'quinones, other than those containing more than\none kind of oxygen function; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2922.31', None, None, '--Amfepramone (INN), methadone (INN) and\nnormethadone (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.4', None, None, '-Amino-acids, other than those containing more\nthan one kind of oxygen function, and their esters;\nsalts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2922.41', None, None, '--Lysine and its esters; salts thereof', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.42', None, None, '--Glutamic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.43', None, None, '--Anthranilic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.44', None, None, '--Tilidine (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2922.50', None, None, '-Amino-alcohol-phenols, amino-acid-phenols and\nother amino-compounds with oxygen function', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2923', None, None, 'Quaternary ammonium salts and hydroxides;\nlecithins and other phosphoaminolipids, whether\nor not chemically defined.', '', None, None], ['2923.10', None, None, '-Choline and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2923.20', None, None, '-Lecithins and other phosphoaminolipids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2923.30', None, None, '-Tetraethylammonium perfluorooctane sulphonate', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2923.40', None, None, '-Didecyldimethylammonium perfluorooctane\nsulphonate', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2923.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924', None, None, 'Carboxyamide-function compounds; amide-\nfunction compounds of carbonic acid.', '', None, None], ['2924.1', None, None, '-Acyclic amides (including acyclic carbamates)\nand their derivatives; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2924.11', None, None, '--Meprobamate (INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.12', None, None, '--Fluoroacetamide (ISO), monocrotophos (ISO) and\nphosphamidon (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.2', None, None, '-Cyclic amides (including cyclic carbamates) and\ntheir derivatives; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2924.21', None, None, '--Ureines and their derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.23', None, None, '--2-Acetamidobenzoic acid (N-acetylanthranilic acid)\nand its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.24', None, None, '--Ethinamate (INN)', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.25', None, None, '--Alachlor (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2924.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2925', None, None, 'Carboxyimide-function compounds (including\nsaccharin and its salts) and imine-function\ncompounds.', '', None, None], ['2925.1', None, None, '-Imides and their derivatives; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2925.11', None, None, '--Saccharin and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2925.12', None, None, '--Glutethimide (INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2925.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2925.2', None, None, '-Imines and their derivatives; salts thereof:', '', None, None], ['2925.21', None, None, '--Chlordimeform (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2925.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2926', None, None, 'Nitrile-function compounds.', '', None, None], ['2926.10', None, None, '-Acrylonitrile', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2926.20', None, None, '-1-Cyanoguanidine (dicyandiamide)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2926.30', None, None, '-Fenproporex (INN) and its salts; methadone (INN)\nintermediate (4-cyano-2-dimethylamino-4,4-\ndiphenylbutane)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2926.40', None, None, '-alpha-Phenylacetoacetonitrile', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2926.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2927', None, None, 'Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds.', '', None, None], ['2927.00', None, None, '-Diazo-, azo- or azoxy-compounds.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2928', None, None, 'Organic derivatives of hydrazine or of\nhydroxylamine.', '', None, None], ['2928.00', None, None, '-Organic derivatives of hydrazine or of\nhydroxylamine.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2929', None, None, 'Compounds with other nitrogen function.', '', None, None], ['2929.10', None, None, '-Isocyanates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2929.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930', None, None, 'Organo-sulphur compounds.', '', None, None], ['2930.20', None, None, '-Thiocarbamates and dithiocarbamates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.30', None, None, '-Thiuram mono-, di- or tetrasulphides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.40', None, None, '-Methionine', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.60', None, None, '-2-(N,N-Diethylamino)ethanethiol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.70', None, None, '-Bis(2-hydroxyethyl)sulfide (thiodiglycol (INN))', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.80', None, None, '-Aldicarb (ISO), captafol (ISO) and methamidophos\n(ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2930.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931', None, None, 'Other organo-inorganic compounds.', '', None, None], ['2931.10', None, None, '-Tetramethyl lead and tetraethyl lead', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.20', None, None, '-Tributyltin compounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.3', None, None, '-Other organo-phosphorous derivatives:', '', None, None], ['2931.31', None, None, '--Dimethyl methylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.32', None, None, '--Dimethyl propylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.33', None, None, '--Diethyl ethylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.34', None, None, '--Sodium 3-(trihydroxysilyl)propyl\nmethylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.35', None, None, '--2,4,6-Tripropyl-1,3,5,2,4,6-trioxatriphosphinane\n2,4,6-trioxide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.36', None, None, '-- (5-Ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-\n5-yl)methyl methyl methylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.37', None, None, '--Bis[(5-ethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-\ndioxaphosphinan-5-yl)methyl] methylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.38', None, None, '--Salt of methylphosphonic acid and\n(aminoiminomethyl)urea (1 : 1)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2931.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932', None, None, 'Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetero-\natom(s) only.', '', None, None], ['2932.1', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused furan ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure:', '', None, None], ['2932.11', None, None, '--Tetrahydrofuran', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.12', None, None, '--2-Furaldehyde (furfuraldehyde)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.13', None, None, '--Furfuryl alcohol and tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.14', None, None, '--Sucralose', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.20', None, None, '-Lactones', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2932.91', None, None, '--Isosafrole', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.92', None, None, '--1-(1,3-Benzodioxol-5-yl)propane-2-one', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.93', None, None, '--Piperonal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.94', None, None, '--Safrole', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.95', None, None, '--Tetrahydrocannabinols (all isomers)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2932.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933', None, None, 'Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetero-\natom(s) only.', '', None, None], ['2933.1', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused pyrazole ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure:', '', None, None], ['2933.11', None, None, '--Phenazone (antipyrin) and its derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.2', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused imidazole ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure:', '', None, None], ['2933.21', None, None, '--Hydantoin and its derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.3', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused pyridine ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure:', '', None, None], ['2933.31', None, None, '--Pyridine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.32', None, None, '--Piperidine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.33', None, None, '--Alfentanil (INN), anileridine (INN), bezitramide\n(INN), bromazepam (INN), difenoxin (INN),\ndiphenoxylate (INN), dipipanone (INN), fentanyl\n(INN), ketobemidone (INN), methylphenidate (INN),\npentazocine (INN), pethidine (INN), pethidine (INN)\nintermediate A, phencyclidine (INN) (PCP),\nphenoperidine (INN), pipradrol (INN), piritramide\n(INN), propiram (INN) and trimeperidine (INN);\nsalts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.4', None, None, '-Compounds containing in the structure a\nquinoline or isoquinoline ring-system (whether or\nnot hydrogenated), not further fused:', '', None, None], ['2933.41', None, None, '--Levorphanol (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.5', None, None, '-Compounds containing a pyrimidine ring\n(whether or not hydrogented) or piperazine ring\nin the structure:', '', None, None], ['2933.52', None, None, '--Malonylurea (barbituric acid) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.53', None, None, '--Allobarbital (INN), amobarbital (INN), barbital\n(INN), butalbital (INN), butobarbital, cyclobarbital\n(INN), methylphenobarbital (INN), pentobarbital\n(INN), phenobarbital (INN), secbutabarbital (INN),\nsecobarbital (INN) and vinylbital (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.54', None, None, '--Other derivatives of malonylurea (barbituric acid);\nsalts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.55', None, None, '--Loprazolam (INN), mecloqualone (INN),\nmethaqualone (INN) and zipeprol (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.6', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused triazine ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure:', '', None, None], ['2933.61', None, None, '--Melamine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.7', None, None, '-Lactams:', '', None, None], ['2933.71', None, None, '--6-Hexanelactam (epsilon-caprolactam)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.72', None, None, '--Clobazam (INN) and methyprylon (INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.79', None, None, '--Other lactams', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2933.91', None, None, '--Alprazolam (INN), camazepam (INN),\nchlordiazepoxide (INN), clonazepam (INN),\nclorazepate, delorazepam (INN), diazepam (INN),\nestazolam (INN), ethyl loflazepate (INN),\nfludiazepam (INN), flunitrazepam (INN), flurazepam\n(INN), halazepam (INN), lorazepam (INN),\nlormetazepam (INN), mazindol (INN), medazepam\n(INN), midazolam (INN), nimetazepam (INN),\nnitrazepam (INN), nordazepam (INN), oxazepam\n(INN), pinazepam (INN), prazepam (INN),\npyrovalerone (INN), temazepam (INN), tetrazepam\n(INN) and triazolam (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.92', None, None, '--Azinphos-methyl (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2933.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2934', None, None, 'Nucleic acids and their salts, whether or not\nchemically defined; other heterocyclic compounds.', '', None, None], ['2934.10', None, None, '-Compounds containing an unfused thiazole ring\n(whether or not hydrogenated) in the structure', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2934.20', None, None, '-Compounds containing in the structure a\nbenzothiazole ring-system (whether or not\nhydrogenated), not further fused', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2934.30', None, None, '-Compounds containing in the structure a\nphenothiazine ring-system (whether or not\nhydrogenated), not further fused', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2934.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['2934.91', None, None, '--Aminorex (INN), brotizolam (INN), clotiazepam\n(INN), cloxazolam (INN), dextromoramide (INN),\nhaloxazolam (INN), ketazolam (INN), mesocarb\n(INN), oxazolam (INN), pemoline (INN),\nphendimetrazine (INN), phenmetrazine (INN) and\nsufentanil (INN); salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2934.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935', None, None, 'Sulphonamides.', '', None, None], ['2935.10', None, None, '-N-Methylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935.20', None, None, '-N-Ethylperfluorooctane sulphonamide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935.30', None, None, '-N-Ethyl-N-(2-hydroxyethyl) perfluorooctane\nsulphonamide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935.40', None, None, '-N-(2-Hydroxyethyl)-N-methylperfluorooctane\nsulphonamide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935.50', None, None, '-Other perfluorooctane sulphonamides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2935.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936', None, None, 'Provitamins and vitamins, natural or reproduced\nby synthesis (including natural concentrates),\nderivatives thereof used primarily as vitamins,\nand intermixtures of the foregoing, whether or not\nin any solvent.', '', None, None], ['2936.2', None, None, '-Vitamins and their derivatives, unmixed:', '', None, None], ['2936.21', None, None, '--Vitamins A and their derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.22', None, None, '--Vitamin B1 and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.23', None, None, '--Vitamin B2 and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.24', None, None, '--D- or DL-Pantothenic acid (Vitamin B3 or Vitamin\nB5) and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.25', None, None, '--Vitamin B6 and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.26', None, None, '--Vitamin B12 and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.27', None, None, '--Vitamin C and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.28', None, None, '--Vitamin E and its derivatives', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.29', None, None, '--Other vitamins and their derivatives', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2936.90', None, None, '-Other, including natural concentrates', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937', None, None, 'Hormones, prostaglandins, thromboxanes and\nleukotrienes, natural or reproduced by synthesis;\nderivatives and structural analogues thereof,\nincluding chain modified polypeptides, used\nprimarily as hormones.', '', None, None], ['2937.1', None, None, '-Polypeptide hormones, protein hormones and\nglycoprotein hormones, their derivatives and\nstructural analogues:', '', None, None], ['2937.11', None, None, '--Somatotropin, its derivatives and structural\nanalogues', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.12', None, None, '--Insulin and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.2', None, None, '-Steroidal hormones, their derivatives and\nstructural analogues:', '', None, None], ['2937.21', None, None, '--Cortisone, hydrocortisone, prednisone\n(dehydrocortisone) and prednisolone\n(dehydrohydrocortisone)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.22', None, None, '--Halogenated derivatives of corticosteroidal\nhormones', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.23', None, None, '--Oestrogens and progestogens', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.50', None, None, '-Prostaglandins, thromboxanes and leukotrienes, their\nderivatives and structural analogues', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2937.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2938', None, None, 'Glycosides, natural or reproduced by synthesis,\nand their salts, ethers, esters and other\nderivatives.', '', None, None], ['2938.10', None, None, '-Rutoside (rutin) and its derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2938.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939', None, None, 'Alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis, and\ntheir salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives.', '', None, None], ['2939.1', None, None, '-Alkaloids of opium and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2939.11', None, None, '--Concentrates of poppy straw; buprenorphine (INN),\ncodeine, dihydrocodeine (INN), ethylmorphine,\netorphine (INN), heroin, hydrocodone (INN),\nhydromorphone (INN), morphine, nicomorphine\n(INN), oxycodone (INN), oxymorphone (INN),\npholcodine (INN), thebacon (INN) and thebaine; salts\nthereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.20', None, None, '-Alkaloids of cinchona and their derivatives; salts\nthereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.30', None, None, '-Caffeine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.4', None, None, '-Ephedrines and their salts:', '', None, None], ['2939.41', None, None, '--Ephedrine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.42', None, None, '--Pseudoephedrine (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.43', None, None, '--Cathine (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.44', None, None, '--Norephedrine and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.5', None, None, '-Theophylline and aminophylline (theophylline-\nethylenediamine) and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2939.51', None, None, '--Fenetylline (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.6', None, None, '-Alkaloids of rye ergot and their derivatives; salts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['2939.61', None, None, '--Ergometrine (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.62', None, None, '--Ergotamine (INN) and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.63', None, None, '--Lysergic acid and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.7', None, None, '-Other, of vegetal origin:', '', None, None], ['2939.71', None, None, '--Cocaine, ecgonine, levometamfetamine,\nmetamfetamine (INN), metamfetamine racemate;\nsalts, esters and other derivatives thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2939.80', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2940', None, None, 'Sugars, chemically pure, other than sucrose,\nlactose, maltose, glucose and fructose; sugar\nethers, sugar acetals and sugar esters, and their\nsalts, other than products of heading 29.37, 29.38\nor 29.39.', '', None, None], ['2940.00', None, None, '-Sugars, chemically pure, other than sucrose, lactose,\nmaltose, glucose and fructose; sugar ethers, sugar\nacetals and sugar esters, and their salts, other than\nproducts of heading 29.37, 29.38 or 29.39.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941', None, None, 'Antibiotics.', '', None, None], ['2941.10', None, None, '-Penicillins and their derivatives with a penicillanic\nacid structure; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941.20', None, None, '-Streptomycins and their derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941.30', None, None, '-Tetracyclines and their derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941.40', None, None, '-Chloramphenicol and its derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941.50', None, None, '-Erythromycin and its derivatives; salts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2941.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['2942', None, None, 'Other organic compounds.', '', None, None], ['2942.00', None, None, '-Other organic compounds.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 30', None, None, 'Pharmaceutical Products', '', None, None], ['3001', None, None, 'Glands and other organs for organo-therapeutic\nuses, dried, whether or not powdered; extracts of\nglands or other organs or of their secretions for\norgano-therapeutic uses; heparin and its salts;\nother human or animal substances prepared for\ntherapeutic or prophylactic uses, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', None, None], ['3001.20', None, None, '-Extracts of glands or other organs or of their\nsecretions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3001.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002', None, None, 'Human blood; animal blood prepared for\ntherapeutic, prophylactic or diagnostic uses;\nantisera, other blood fractions and immunological\nproducts, whether or not modified or obtained by\nmeans of biotechnological processes; vaccines,\ntoxins, cultures of micro-organisms (excluding\nyeasts) and similar products.', '', None, None], ['3002.1', None, None, '-Antisera, other blood fractions and\nimmunological products, whether or not modified\nor obtained by means of biotechnological\nprocesses:', '', None, None], ['3002.11', None, None, '--Malaria diagnostic test kits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.12', None, None, '--Antisera and other blood fractions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.13', None, None, '--Immunological products, unmixed, not put up in\nmeasured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.14', None, None, '--Immunological products, mixed, not put up in\nmeasured doses or in forms or packings for retail sale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.15', None, None, '-- Immunological products, put up in measured doses\nor in forms or packings for retail sale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.20', None, None, '-Vaccines for human medicine', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.30', None, None, '-Vaccines for veterinary medicine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3002.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003', None, None, 'Medicaments (excluding goods of heading 30.02,\n30.05 or 30.06) consisting of two or more\nconstituents which have been mixed together for\ntherapeutic or prophylactic uses, not put up in\nmeasured doses or in forms or packings for retail\nsale.', '', None, None], ['3003.10', None, None, '-Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a\npenicillanic acid structure, or streptomycins or their\nderivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.20', None, None, '-Other, containing antibiotics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.3', None, None, '-Other, containing hormones or other products of\nheading 29.37:', '', None, None], ['3003.31', None, None, '--Containing insulin', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.4', None, None, '-Other, containing alkaloids or derivatives\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['3003.41', None, None, '--Containing ephedrine or its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.42', None, None, '--Containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.43', None, None, '--Containing norephedrine or its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.60', None, None, '-Other, containing antimalarial active principles\ndescribed in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3003.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004', None, None, 'Medicaments (excluding goods of heading 30.02,\n30.05 or 30.06) consisting of mixed or unmixed\nproducts for therapeutic or prophylactic uses, put\nup in measured doses (including those in the form\nof transdermal administration systems) or in\nforms or packings for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['3004.10', None, None, '-Containing penicillins or derivatives thereof, with a\npenicillanic acid structure, or streptomycins or their\nderivatives', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.20', None, None, '-Other, containing antibiotics', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.3', None, None, '-Other, containing hormones or other products of\nheading 29.37:', '', None, None], ['3004.31', None, None, '--Containing insulin', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.32', None, None, '--Containing corticosteroid hormones, their\nderivatives or structural analogues', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.4', None, None, '-Other, containing alkaloids or derivatives\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['3004.41', None, None, '--Containing ephedrine or its salts', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.42', None, None, '--Containing pseudoephedrine (INN) or its salts', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.43', None, None, '--Containing norephedrine or its salts', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.50', None, None, '-Other, containing vitamins or other products of\nheading 29.36', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.60', None, None, '-Other, containing antimalarial active principles\ndescribed in Subheading Note 2 to this Chapter', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3004.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH ex 3003 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3005', None, None, 'Wadding, gauze, bandages and similar articles\n(for example, dressings, adhesive plasters,\npoultices), impregnated or coated with\npharmaceutical substances or put up in forms or\npackings for retail sale for medical, surgical,\ndental or veterinary purposes.', '', None, None], ['3005.10', None, None, '-Adhesive dressings and other articles having an\nadhesive layer', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3005.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006', None, None, 'Pharmaceutical goods specified in Note 4 to this\nChapter.', '', None, None], ['3006.10', None, None, '-Sterile surgical catgut, similar sterile suture\nmaterials (including sterile absorbable surgical or\ndental yarns) and sterile tissue adhesives for surgical\nwound closure; sterile laminaria and sterile laminaria\ntents; sterile absorbable surgical or dental\nhaemostatics; sterile surgical or dental adhesion\nbarriers, whether or not absorbable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.20', None, None, '-Blood-grouping reagents', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.30', None, None, '-Opacifying preparations for X-ray examinations;\ndiagnostic reagents designed to be administered to\nthe patient', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.40', None, None, '-Dental cements and other dental fillings; bone\nreconstruction cements', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.50', None, None, '-First-aid boxes and kits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.60', None, None, '-Chemical contraceptive preparations based on\nhormones, on other products of heading 29.37 or on\nspermicides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.70', None, None, '-Gel preparations designed to be used in human or\nveterinary medicine as a lubricant for parts of the\nbody for surgical operations or physical examinations\nor as a coupling agent between the body and medical\ninstruments', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3006.91', None, None, '--Appliances identifiable for ostomy use', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3006.92', None, None, '--Waste pharmaceuticals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 31', None, None, 'Fertilisers', '', None, None], ['3101', None, None, 'Animal or vegetable fertilisers, whether or not\nmixed together or chemically treated; fertilisers\nproduced by the mixing or chemical treatment of\nanimal or vegetable products.', '', None, None], ['3101.00', None, None, '-Animal or vegetable fertilisers, whether or not mixed\ntogether or chemically treated; fertilisers produced by\nthe mixing or chemical treatment of animal or\nvegetable products.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102', None, None, 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers, nitrogenous.', '', None, None], ['3102.10', None, None, '-Urea, whether or not in aqueous solution', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.2', None, None, '-Ammonium sulphate; double salts and mixtures\nof ammonium sulphate and ammonium nitrate:', '', None, None], ['3102.21', None, None, '--Ammonium sulphate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.30', None, None, '-Ammonium nitrate, whether or not in aqueous\nsolution', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.40', None, None, '-Mixtures of ammonium nitrate with calcium\ncarbonate or other inorganic non-fertilising\nsubstances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.50', None, None, '-Sodium nitrate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.60', None, None, '-Double salts and mixtures of calcium nitrate and\nammonium nitrate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.80', None, None, '-Mixtures of urea and ammonium nitrate in aqueous\nor ammoniacal solution', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3102.90', None, None, '-Other, including mixtures not specified in the\nforegoing subheadings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3103', None, None, 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers, phosphatic.', '', None, None], ['3103.1', None, None, '-Superphosphates:', '', None, None], ['3103.11', None, None, '--Containing by weight 35 % or more of\ndiphosphorus pentaoxide (P2O5)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3103.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3103.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3104', None, None, 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers, potassic.', '', None, None], ['3104.20', None, None, '-Potassium chloride', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3104.30', None, None, '-Potassium sulphate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3104.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105', None, None, 'Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing two or\nthree of the fertilising elements nitrogen,\nphosphorus and potassium; other fertilisers;\ngoods of this Chapter in tablets or similar forms\nor in packages of a gross weight not exceeding 10\nkg.', '', None, None], ['3105.10', None, None, '-Goods of this Chapter in tablets or similar forms or\nin packages of a gross weight not exceeding 10 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.20', None, None, '-Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing the three\nfertilising elements nitrogen, phosphorus and\npotassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.30', None, None, '-Diammonium hydrogenorthophosphate\n(diammonium phosphate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.40', None, None, '-Ammonium dihydrogenorthophosphate\n(monoammonium phosphate) and mixtures thereof\nwith diammonium hydrogenorthophosphate\n(diammonium phosphate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.5', None, None, '-Other mineral or chemical fertilisers containing\nthe two fertilising elements nitrogen and\nphosphorus:', '', None, None], ['3105.51', None, None, '--Containing nitrates and phosphates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.60', None, None, '-Mineral or chemical fertilisers containing the two\nfertilising elements phosphorus and potassium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3105.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 32', None, None, 'Tanning or Dyeing Extracts; Tannins and their\nDerivatives; Dyes, Pigments and Other Colouring\nMatter; Paints and Varnishes; Putty and Other\nMastics; Inks', '', None, None], ['3201', None, None, 'Tanning extracts of vegetable origin; tannins and\ntheir salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives.', '', None, None], ['3201.10', None, None, '-Quebracho extract', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3201.20', None, None, '-Wattle extract', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3201.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3202', None, None, 'Synthetic organic tanning substances; inorganic\ntanning substances; tanning preparations,\nwhether or not containing natural tanning\nsubstances; enzymatic preparations for pre-\ntanning.', '', None, None], ['3202.10', None, None, '-Synthetic organic tanning substances', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3202.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3203', None, None, 'Colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin\n(including dyeing extracts but excluding animal\nblack), whether or not chemically defined;\npreparations as specified in Note 3 to this Chapter\nbased on colouring matter of vegetable or animal\norigin.', '', None, None], ['3203.00', None, None, '-Colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin\n(including dyeing extracts but excluding animal\nblack), whether or not chemically defined;\npreparations as specified in Note 3 to this Chapter\nbased on colouring matter of vegetable or animal\norigin.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204', None, None, 'Synthetic organic colouring matter, whether or\nnot chemically defined; preparations as specified\nin Note 3 to this Chapter based on synthetic\norganic colouring matter; synthetic organic\nproducts of a kind used as fluorescent brightening\nagents or as luminophores, whether or not\nchemically defined.', '', None, None], ['3204.1', None, None, '-Synthetic organic colouring matter and\npreparations based thereon as specified in Note 3\nto this Chapter:', '', None, None], ['3204.11', None, None, '--Disperse dyes and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.12', None, None, '--Acid dyes, whether or not premetallised, and\npreparations based thereon; mordant dyes and\npreparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.13', None, None, '--Basic dyes and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.14', None, None, '--Direct dyes and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.15', None, None, '--Vat dyes (including those usable in that state as\npigments) and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.16', None, None, '--Reactive dyes and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.17', None, None, '--Pigments and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.19', None, None, '--Other, including mixtures of colouring matter of\ntwo or more of the subheadings 3204.11 to 3204.19', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.20', None, None, '-Synthetic organic products of a kind used as\nfluorescent brightening agents', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3204.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3205', None, None, 'Colour lakes; preparations as specified in Note 3\nto this Chapter based on colour lakes.', '', None, None], ['3205.00', None, None, '-Colour lakes; preparations as specified in Note 3 to\nthis Chapter based on colour lakes.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206', None, None, 'Other colouring matter; preparations as specified', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'in Note 3 to this Chapter, other than those of\nheading 32.03, 32.04 or 32.05; inorganic products\nof a kind used as luminophores, whether or not\nchemically defined.', '', None, None], ['3206.1', None, None, '-Pigments and preparations based on titanium\ndioxide:', '', None, None], ['3206.11', None, None, '--Containing 80 % or more by weight of titanium\ndioxide calculated on the dry matter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.20', None, None, '-Pigments and preparations based on chromium\ncompounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.4', None, None, '-Other colouring matter and other preparations :', '', None, None], ['3206.41', None, None, '--Ultramarine and preparations based thereon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.42', None, None, '--Lithopone and other pigments and preparations\nbased on zinc sulphide', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3206.50', None, None, '-Inorganic products of a kind used as luminophores', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3207', None, None, 'Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers and\nprepared colours, vitrifiable enamels and glazes,\nengobes (slips), liquid lustres and similar\npreparations, of a kind used in the ceramic,\nenamelling or glass industry; glass frit and other\nglass, in the form of powder, granules or flakes.', '', None, None], ['3207.10', None, None, '-Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers, prepared\ncolours and similar preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3207.20', None, None, '-Vitrifiable enamels and glazes, engobes (slips) and\nsimilar preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3207.30', None, None, '-Liquid lustres and similar preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3207.40', None, None, '-Glass frit and other glass, in the form of powder,\ngranules or flakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3208', None, None, 'Paints and varnishes (including enamels and\nlacquers) based on synthetic polymers or\nchemically modified natural polymers, dispersed\nor dissolved in a non-aqueous medium; solutions\nas defined in Note 4 to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['3208.10', None, None, '-Based on polyesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3208.20', None, None, '-Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3209', None, None, 'Paints and varnishes (including enamels and\nlacquers) based on synthetic polymers or\nchemically modified natural polymers, dispersed\nor dissolved in an aqueous medium.', '', None, None], ['3209.10', None, None, '-Based on acrylic or vinyl polymers', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3209.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3210', None, None, 'Other paints and varnishes (including enamels,\nlacquers and distempers); prepared water\npigments of a kind used for finishing leather.', '', None, None], ['3210.00', None, None, '-Other paints and varnishes (including enamels,\nlacquers and distempers); prepared water pigments of\na kind used for finishing leather.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3211', None, None, 'Prepared driers.', '', None, None], ['3211.00', None, None, '-Prepared driers.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3212', None, None, 'Pigments (including metallic powders and flakes)\ndispersed in non-aqueous media, in liquid or paste\nform, of a kind used in the manufacture of paints\n(including enamels); stamping foils; dyes and\nother colouring matter put up in forms or\npackings for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['3212.10', None, None, '-Stamping foils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3212.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3213', None, None, "Artists', students' or signboard painters' colours,\nmodifying tints, amusement colours and the like,\nin tablets, tubes, jars, bottles, pans or in similar\nforms or packings.", '', None, None], ['3213.10', None, None, '-Colours in sets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3213.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3214', None, None, "Glaziers' putty, grafting putty, resin cements,\ncaulking compounds and other mastics; painters'\nfillings; non-refractory surfacing preparations for\nfacades, indoor walls, floors, ceilings or the like.", '', None, None], ['3214.10', None, None, "-Glaziers' putty, grafting putty, resin cements,\ncaulking compounds and other mastics; painters'\nfillings", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3214.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3215', None, None, 'Printing ink, writing or drawing ink and other\ninks, whether or not concentrated or solid.', '', None, None], ['3215.1', None, None, '-Printing ink:', '', None, None], ['3215.11', None, None, '--Black', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3215.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3215.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 33', None, None, 'Essential Oils and Resinoids; Perfumery,\nCosmetic or Toilet Preparations', '', None, None], ['3301', None, None, 'Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'concretes and absolutes; resinoids; extracted\noleoresins; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in\nfixed oils, in waxes or the like, obtained by\nenfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products of\nthe deterpenation of essential oils; aqueous\ndistillates and aqueous solutions of essential oils.', '', None, None], ['3301.1', None, None, '-Essential oils of citrus fruit:', '', None, None], ['3301.12', None, None, '--Of orange', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.13', None, None, '--Of lemon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.2', None, None, '-Essential oils other than those of citrus fruit:', '', None, None], ['3301.24', None, None, '--Of peppermint (Mentha piperita)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.25', None, None, '--Of other mints', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.30', None, None, '-Resinoids', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3301.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3302', None, None, 'Mixtures of odoriferous substances and mixtures\n(including alcoholic solutions) with a basis of one\nor more of these substances, of a kind used as raw\nmaterials in industry; other preparations based on\nodoriferous substances, of a kind used for the\nmanufacture of beverages.', '', None, None], ['3302.10', None, None, '-Of a kind used in the food or drink industries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3302.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3303', None, None, 'Perfumes and toilet waters.', '', None, None], ['3303.00', None, None, '-Perfumes and toilet waters.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3304', None, None, 'Beauty or make-up preparations and preparations\nfor the care of the skin (other than medicaments),\nincluding sunscreen or sun tan preparations;\nmanicure or pedicure preparations.', '', None, None], ['3304.10', None, None, '-Lip make-up preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3304.20', None, None, '-Eye make-up preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3304.30', None, None, '-Manicure or pedicure preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3304.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3304.91', None, None, '--Powders, whether or not compressed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3304.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3305', None, None, 'Preparations for use on the hair.', '', None, None], ['3305.10', None, None, '-Shampoos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3305.20', None, None, '-Preparations for permanent waving or straightening', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3305.30', None, None, '-Hair lacquers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3305.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3306', None, None, 'Preparations for oral or dental hygiene, including\ndenture fixative pastes and powders; yarn used to\nclean between the teeth (dental floss), in individual\nretail packages.', '', None, None], ['3306.10', None, None, '-Dentifrices', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3306.20', None, None, '-Yarn used to clean between the teeth (dental floss)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3306.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307', None, None, 'Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations,\npersonal deodorants, bath preparations,\ndepilatories and other perfumery, cosmetic or\ntoilet preparations, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded; prepared room deodorisers, whether or\nnot perfumed or having disinfectant properties.', '', None, None], ['3307.10', None, None, '-Pre-shave, shaving or after-shave preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307.20', None, None, '-Personal deodorants and antiperspirants', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307.30', None, None, '-Perfumed bath salts and other bath preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307.4', None, None, '-Preparations for perfuming or deodorizing\nrooms, including odoriferous preparations used\nduring religious rites:', '', None, None], ['3307.41', None, None, '--"Agarbatti" and other odoriferous preparations\nwhich operate by burning', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3307.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 34', None, None, 'Soap, Organic Surface-active Agents, Washing\nPreparations, Lubricating Preparations, Artificial\nWaxes, Prepared Waxes, Polishing or Scouring\nPreparations, Candles and Similar Articles,\nModelling pastes, "Dental Waxes" and Dental\nPreparations with a Basis of Plaster', '', None, None], ['3401', None, None, 'Soap; organic surface-active products and\npreparations for use as soap, in the form of bars,\ncakes, moulded pieces or shapes, whether or not\ncontaining soap; organic surface-active products', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'and preparations for washing the skin, in the form\nof liquid or cream and put up for retail sale,\nwhether or not containing soap; paper, wadding,\nfelt and nonwovens, impregnated, coated or\ncovered with soap or detergent.', '', None, None], ['3401.1', None, None, '-Soap and organic surface-active products and\npreparations, in the form of bars, cakes, moulded\npieces or shapes, and paper, wadding, felt and\nnonwovens, impregnated, coated or covered with\nsoap or detergent:', '', None, None], ['3401.11', None, None, '--For toilet use (including medicated products)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3401.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3401.20', None, None, '-Soap in other forms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3401.30', None, None, '-Organic surface-active products and preparations for\nwashing the skin, in the form of liquid or cream and\nput up for retail sale, whether or not containing soap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402', None, None, 'Organic surface-active agents (other than soap);\nsurface-active preparations, washing preparations\n(including auxiliary washing preparations) and\ncleaning preparations, whether or not containing\nsoap, other than those of heading 34.01.', '', None, None], ['3402.1', None, None, '-Organic surface-active agents, whether or not put\nup for retail sale:', '', None, None], ['3402.11', None, None, '--Anionic', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402.12', None, None, '--Cationic', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402.13', None, None, '--Non-ionic', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402.20', None, None, '-Preparations put up for retail sale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3402.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3403', None, None, 'Lubricating preparations (including cutting-oil\npreparations, bolt or nut release preparations,\nanti-rust or anti-corrosion preparations and\nmould release preparations, based on lubricants)\nand preparations of a kind used for the oil or\ngrease treatment of textile materials, leather,\nfurskins or other materials, but excluding\npreparations containing, as basic constituents,\n70 % or more by weight of petroleum oils or of\noils obtained from bituminous minerals.', '', None, None], ['3403.1', None, None, '-Containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals:', '', None, None], ['3403.11', None, None, '--Preparations for the treatment of textile materials,', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'leather, furskins or other materials', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3403.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3403.9', None, None, '-Other :', '', None, None], ['3403.91', None, None, '--Preparations for the treatment of textile materials,\nleather, furskins or other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3403.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3404', None, None, 'Artificial waxes and prepared waxes.', '', None, None], ['3404.20', None, None, '-Of poly(oxyethylene) (polyethylene glycol)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3404.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3405', None, None, 'Polishes and creams, for footwear, furniture,\nfloors, coachwork, glass or metal, scouring pastes\nand powders and similar preparations (whether or\nnot in the form of paper, wadding, felt,\nnonwovens, cellular plastics or cellular rubber,\nimpregnated, coated or covered with such\npreparations), excluding waxes of heading 34.04.', '', None, None], ['3405.10', None, None, '-Polishes, creams and similar preparations for\nfootwear or leather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3405.20', None, None, '-Polishes, creams and similar preparations for the\nmaintenance of wooden furniture, floors or other\nwoodwork', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3405.30', None, None, '-Polishes and similar preparations for coachwork,\nother than metal polishes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3405.40', None, None, '-Scouring pastes and powders and other scouring\npreparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3405.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3406', None, None, 'Candles, tapers and the like.', '', None, None], ['3406.00', None, None, '-Candles, tapers and the like.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3407', None, None, 'Modelling pastes, including those put up for\nchildren\'s amusement; preparations known as\n"dental wax" or as "dental impression\ncompounds", put up in sets, in packings for retail\nsale or in plates, horseshoe shapes, sticks or\nsimilar forms; other preparations for use in\ndentistry, with a basis of plaster (of calcined\ngypsum or calcium sulphate).', '', None, None], ['3407.00', None, None, '-Modelling pastes, including those put up for\nchildren\'s amusement; preparations known as "dental\nwax" or as "dental impression compounds", put up in\nsets, in packings for retail sale or in plates, horseshoe\nshapes, sticks or similar forms; other preparations for\nuse in dentistry, with a basis of plaster (of calcined\ngypsum or calcium sulphate).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 35', None, None, 'Albuminoidal Substances; Modified Starches;\nGlues; Enzymes', '', None, None], ['3501', None, None, 'Casein, caseinates and other casein derivatives;\ncasein glues.', '', None, None], ['3501.10', None, None, '-Casein', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3501.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3502', None, None, 'Albumins (including concentrates of two or more\nwhey proteins, containing by weight more than\n80 % whey proteins, calculated on the dry\nmatter), albuminates and other albumin\nderivatives.', '', None, None], ['3502.1', None, None, '-Egg albumin:', '', None, None], ['3502.11', None, None, '--Dried', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3502.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3502.20', None, None, '-Milk albumin, including concentrates of two or more\nwhey proteins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3502.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3503', None, None, 'Gelatin (including gelatin in rectangular\n(including square) sheets, whether or not surface-\nworked or coloured) and gelatin derivatives;\nisinglass; other glues of animal origin, excluding\ncasein glues of heading 35.01.', '', None, None], ['3503.00', None, None, '-Gelatin (including gelatin in rectangular (including\nsquare) sheets, whether or not surface-worked or\ncoloured) and gelatin derivatives; isinglass; other\nglues of animal origin, excluding casein glues of\nheading 35.01.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3504', None, None, 'Peptones and their derivatives; other protein\nsubstances and their derivatives, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; hide powder, whether or not\nchromed.', '', None, None], ['3504.00', None, None, '-Peptones and their derivatives; other protein\nsubstances and their derivatives, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; hide powder, whether or not\nchromed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3505', None, None, 'Dextrins and other modified starches (for\nexample, pregelatinised or esterified starches);\nglues based on starches, or on dextrins or other\nmodified starches.', '', None, None], ['3505.10', None, None, '-Dextrins and other modified starches', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3505.20', None, None, '-Glues', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3506', None, None, 'Prepared glues and other prepared adhesives, not\nelsewhere specified or included; products suitable\nfor use as glues or adhesives, put up for retail sale\nas glues or adhesives, not exceeding a net weight of\n1 kg.', '', None, None], ['3506.10', None, None, '-Products suitable for use as glues or adhesives, put\nup for retail sale as glues or adhesives, not exceeding\na net weight of 1 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3506.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3506.91', None, None, '--Adhesives based on polymers of headings 39.01 to\n39.13 or on rubber', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3506.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3507', None, None, 'Enzymes; prepared enzymes not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', None, None], ['3507.10', None, None, '-Rennet and concentrates thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3507.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 36', None, None, 'Explosives; Pyrotechnic Products; Matches;\nPyrophoric Alloys; Certain Combustible\nPreparations', '', None, None], ['3601', None, None, 'Propellent powders.', '', None, None], ['3601.00', None, None, '-Propellent powders.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3602', None, None, 'Prepared explosives, other than propellent\npowders.', '', None, None], ['3602.00', None, None, '-Prepared explosives, other than propellent powders.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3603', None, None, 'Safety fuses; detonating fuses; percussion or\ndetonating caps; igniters; electric detonators.', '', None, None], ['3603.00', None, None, '-Safety fuses; detonating fuses; percussion or\ndetonating caps; igniters; electric detonators.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3604', None, None, 'Fireworks, signalling flares, rain rockets, fog\nsignals and other pyrotechnic articles.', '', None, None], ['3604.10', None, None, '-Fireworks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3604.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3605', None, None, 'Matches, other than pyrotechnic articles of\nheading 36.04.', '', None, None], ['3605.00', None, None, '-Matches, other than pyrotechnic articles of\nheading 36.04.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3606', None, None, 'Ferro-cerium and other pyrophoric alloys in all\nforms; articles of combustible materials as\nspecified in Note 2 to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['3606.10', None, None, '-Liquid or liquefied-gas fuels in containers of a kind\nused for filling or refilling cigarette or similar lighters\nand of a capacity not exceeding 300㎤', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3606.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 37', None, None, 'Photographic or Cinematographic Goods', '', None, None], ['3701', None, None, 'Photographic plates and film in the flat, sensitised,\nunexposed, of any material other than paper,\npaperboard or textiles; instant print film in the', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'flat, sensitised, unexposed, whether or not in\npacks.', '', None, None], ['3701.10', None, None, '-For X-ray', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3701.20', None, None, '-Instant print film', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3701.30', None, None, '-Other plates and film, with any side exceeding 255\n㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3701.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3701.91', None, None, '--For colour photography (polychrome)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3701.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702', None, None, 'Photographic film in rolls, sensitised, unexposed,\nof any material other than paper, paperboard or\ntextiles; instant print film in rolls, sensitised,\nunexposed.', '', None, None], ['3702.10', None, None, '-For X-ray', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.3', None, None, '-Other film, without perforations, of a width not\nexceeding 105 ㎜:', '', None, None], ['3702.31', None, None, '--For colour photography (polychrome)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.32', None, None, '--Other, with silver halide emulsion', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.4', None, None, '-Other film, without perforations, of a width\nexceeding 105 ㎜:', '', None, None], ['3702.41', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 610 ㎜ and of a length\nexceeding 200 m, for colour photography\n(polychrome)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.42', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 610 ㎜ and of a length\nexceeding 200 m, other than for colour photography', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.43', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 610 ㎜ and of a length not\nexceeding 200 m', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.44', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 105 ㎜ but not exceeding\n610 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.5', None, None, '-Other film, for colour photography\n(polychrome):', '', None, None], ['3702.52', None, None, '--Of a width not exceeding 16 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.53', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 16 ㎜ but not exceeding 35\n㎜ and of a length not exceeding 30 m, for slides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.54', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 16 ㎜ but not exceeding 35\n㎜ and of a length not exceeding 30 m, other than for\nslides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.55', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 16 ㎜ but not exceeding 35\n㎜ and of a length exceeding 30 m', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.56', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 35 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3702.96', None, None, '--Of a width not exceeding 35 ㎜ and of a length not\nexceeding 30 m', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.97', None, None, '--Of a width not exceeding 35 ㎜ and of a length\nexceeding 30 m', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3702.98', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 35 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3703', None, None, 'Photographic paper, paperboard and textiles,\nsensitised, unexposed.', '', None, None], ['3703.10', None, None, '-In rolls of a width exceeding 610 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3703.20', None, None, '-Other, for colour photography (polychrome)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3703.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3704', None, None, 'Photographic plates, film, paper, paperboard and\ntextiles, exposed but not developed.', '', None, None], ['3704.00', None, None, '-Photographic plates, film, paper, paperboard and\ntextiles, exposed but not developed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3705', None, None, 'Photographic plates and film, exposed and\ndeveloped, other than cinematographic film.', '', None, None], ['3705.00', None, None, '-Photographic plates and film, exposed and\ndeveloped, other than cinematographic film.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3706', None, None, 'Cinematographic film, exposed and developed,\nwhether or not incorporating sound track or\nconsisting only of sound track.', '', None, None], ['3706.10', None, None, '-Of a width of 35 ㎜ or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3706.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3707', None, None, 'Chemical preparations for photographic uses\n(other than varnishes, glues, adhesives and similar\npreparations); unmixed products for\nphotographic uses, put up in measured portions or\nput up for retail sale in a form ready for use.', '', None, None], ['3707.10', None, None, '-Sensitising emulsions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3707.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 38', None, None, 'Miscellaneous Chemical Products', '', None, None], ['3801', None, None, 'Artificial graphite; colloidal or semi-colloidal\ngraphite; preparations based on graphite or other\ncarbon in the form of pastes, blocks, plates or\nother semi-manufactures.', '', None, None], ['3801.10', None, None, '-Artificial graphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3801.20', None, None, '-Colloidal or semi-colloidal graphite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3801.30', None, None, '-Carbonaceous pastes for electrodes and similar\npastes for furnace linings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3801.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3802', None, None, 'Activated carbon; activated natural mineral\nproducts; animal black, including spent animal\nblack.', '', None, None], ['3802.10', None, None, '-Activated carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3802.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3803', None, None, 'Tall oil, whether or not refined.', '', None, None], ['3803.00', None, None, '-Tall oil, whether or not refined.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3804', None, None, 'Residual lyes from the manufacture of wood pulp,\nwhether or not concentrated, desugared or\nchemically treated, including lignin sulphonates,\nbut excluding tall oil of heading 38.03.', '', None, None], ['3804.00', None, None, '-Residual lyes from the manufacture of wood pulp,\nwhether or not concentrated, desugared or chemically\ntreated, including lignin sulphonates, but excluding\ntall oil of heading 38.03.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3805', None, None, 'Gum, wood or sulphate turpentine and other\nterpenic oils produced by the distillation or other\ntreatment of coniferous woods; crude dipentene;\nsulphite turpentine and other crude para-cymene;\npine oil containing alpha-terpineol as the main\nconstituent.', '', None, None], ['3805.10', None, None, '-Gum, wood or sulphate turpentine oils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3805.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3806', None, None, 'Rosin and resin acids, and derivatives thereof;\nrosin spirit and rosin oils; run gums.', '', None, None], ['3806.10', None, None, '-Rosin and resin acids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3806.20', None, None, '-Salts of rosin, of resin acids or of derivatives of rosin\nor resin acids, other than salts of rosin adducts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3806.30', None, None, '-Ester gums', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3806.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3807', None, None, "Wood tar; wood tar oils; wood creosote; wood\nnaphtha; vegetable pitch; brewers' pitch and\nsimilar preparations based on rosin, resin acids or\non vegetable pitch.", '', None, None], ['3807.00', None, None, "-Wood tar; wood tar oils; wood creosote; wood\nnaphtha; vegetable pitch; brewers' pitch and similar\npreparations based on rosin, resin acids or on\nvegetable pitch.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808', None, None, 'Insecticides, rodenticides, fungicides, herbicides,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'anti-sprouting products and plant-growth\nregulators, disinfectants and similar products, put\nup in forms or packings for retail sale or as\npreparations or articles (for example, sulphur-\ntreated bands, wicks and candles, and fly-papers).', '', None, None], ['3808.5', None, None, '-Goods specified in Subheading Note 1 to this\nChapter:', '', None, None], ['3808.52', None, None, '--DDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN)), in packings of a\nnet weight content not exceeding 300 g', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.6', None, None, '-Goods specified in Subheading Note 2 to this\nChapter:', '', None, None], ['3808.61', None, None, '--In packings of a net weight content not exceeding\n300 g', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.62', None, None, '--In packings of a net weight content exceeding 300 g\nbut not exceeding 7.5 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3808.91', None, None, '--Insecticides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.92', None, None, '--Fungicides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.93', None, None, '--Herbicides, anti-sprouting products and plant-\ngrowth regulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.94', None, None, '--Disinfectants', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3808.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3809', None, None, 'Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the\ndyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and other products\nand preparations (for example, dressings and\nmordants), of a kind used in the textile, paper,\nleather or like industries, not elsewhere specified\nor included.', '', None, None], ['3809.10', None, None, '-With a basis of amylaceous substances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3809.9', None, None, '-Other :', '', None, None], ['3809.91', None, None, '--Of a kind used in the textile or like industries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3809.92', None, None, '--Of a kind used in the paper or like industries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3809.93', None, None, '--Of a kind used in the leather or like industries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3810', None, None, 'Pickling preparations for metal surfaces; fluxes\nand other auxiliary preparations for soldering,\nbrazing or welding; soldering, brazing or welding\npowders and pastes consisting of metal and other\nmaterials; preparations of a kind used as cores or\ncoatings for welding electrodes or rods.', '', None, None], ['3810.10', None, None, '-Pickling preparations for metal surfaces; soldering,\nbrazing or welding powders and pastes consisting of\nmetal and other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3810.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3811', None, None, 'Anti-knock preparations, oxidation inhibitors,\ngum inhibitors, viscosity improvers, anti-corrosive\npreparations and other prepared additives, for\nmineral oils (including gasoline) or for other\nliquids used for the same purposes as mineral oils.', '', None, None], ['3811.1', None, None, '-Anti-knock preparations:', '', None, None], ['3811.11', None, None, '--Based on lead compounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3811.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3811.2', None, None, '-Additives for lubricating oils:', '', None, None], ['3811.21', None, None, '--Containing petroleum oils or oils obtained from\nbituminous minerals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3811.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3811.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3812', None, None, 'Prepared rubber accelerators; compound\nplasticisers for rubber or plastics, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; anti-oxidising preparations\nand other compound stabilisers for rubber or\nplastics.', '', None, None], ['3812.10', None, None, '-Prepared rubber accelerators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3812.20', None, None, '-Compound plasticisers for rubber or plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3812.3', None, None, '-Anti-oxidising preparations and other compound\nstabilizers for rubber or plastics:', '', None, None], ['3812.31', None, None, '--Mixtures of oligomers of 2,2,4-trimethyl-1,2-\ndihydroquinoline (TMQ)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3812.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3813', None, None, 'Preparations and charges for fire-extinguishers;\ncharged fire-extinguishing grenades.', '', None, None], ['3813.00', None, None, '-Preparations and charges for fire-extinguishers;\ncharged fire-extinguishing grenades.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3814', None, None, 'Organic composite solvents and thinners, not\nelsewhere specified or included; prepared paint or\nvarnish removers.', '', None, None], ['3814.00', None, None, '-Organic composite solvents and thinners, not\nelsewhere specified or included; prepared paint or\nvarnish removers.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3815', None, None, 'Reaction initiators, reaction accelerators and\ncatalytic preparations, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['3815.1', None, None, '-Supported catalysts:', '', None, None], ['3815.11', None, None, '--With nickel or nickel compounds as the active\nsubstance', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3815.12', None, None, '--With precious metal or precious metal compounds\nas the active substance', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3815.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3815.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3816', None, None, 'Refractory cements, mortars, concretes and\nsimilar compositions, other than products of\nheading 38.01.', '', None, None], ['3816.00', None, None, '-Refractory cements, mortars, concretes and similar\ncompositions, other than products of heading 38.01.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3817', None, None, 'Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed\nalkylnaphthalenes, other than those of heading\n27.07 or 29.02.', '', None, None], ['3817.00', None, None, '-Mixed alkylbenzenes and mixed alkylnaphthalenes,\nother than those of heading 27.07 or 29.02.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3818', None, None, 'Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, in\nthe form of discs, wafers or similar forms;\nchemical compounds doped for use in electronics.', '', None, None], ['3818.00', None, None, '-Chemical elements doped for use in electronics, in\nthe form of discs, wafers or similar forms; chemical\ncompounds doped for use in electronics.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3819', None, None, 'Hydraulic brake fluids and other prepared liquids\nfor hydraulic transmission, not containing or\ncontaining less than 70 % by weight of petroleum\noils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.', '', None, None], ['3819.00', None, None, '-Hydraulic brake fluids and other prepared liquids for\nhydraulic transmission, not containing or containing\nless than 70 % by weight of petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous minerals.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3820', None, None, 'Anti-freezing preparations and prepared de-icing\nfluids.', '', None, None], ['3820.00', None, None, '-Anti-freezing preparations and prepared de-icing\nfluids.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3821', None, None, 'Prepared culture media for the development or\nmaintenance of micro-organisms (including\nviruses and the like) or of plant, human or animal\ncells.', '', None, None], ['3821.00', None, None, '-Prepared culture media for the development or\nmaintenance of micro-organisms (including viruses\nand the like) or of plant, human or animal cells.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3822', None, None, 'Diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing,\nprepared diagnostic or laboratory reagents\nwhether or not on a backing, other than those of\nheading 30.02 or 30.06; certified reference\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['3822.00', None, None, '-Diagnostic or laboratory reagents on a backing,\nprepared diagnostic or laboratory reagents whether or\nnot on a backing, other than those of heading 30.02 or', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['', None, None, '30.06; certified reference materials.', '', None, None], ['3823', None, None, 'Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils\nfrom refining; industrial fatty alcohols.', '', None, None], ['3823.1', None, None, '-Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils\nfrom refining:', '', None, None], ['3823.11', None, None, '--Stearic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3823.12', None, None, '--Oleic acid', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3823.13', None, None, '--Tall oil fatty acids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3823.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3823.70', None, None, '-Industrial fatty alcohols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824', None, None, 'Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores;\nchemical products and preparations of the\nchemical or allied industries (including those\nconsisting of mixtures of natural products), not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['3824.10', None, None, '-Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.30', None, None, '-Non-agglomerated metal carbides mixed together or\nwith metallic binders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.40', None, None, '-Prepared additives for cements, mortars or concretes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.50', None, None, '-Non-refractory mortars and concretes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.60', None, None, '-Sorbitol other than that of subheading 2905.44', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.7', None, None, '-Mixtures containing halogenated derivatives of\nmethane, ethane or propane:', '', None, None], ['3824.71', None, None, '--Containing chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), whether or\nnot containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs),\nperfluorocarbons (PFCs) or hydrofluorocarbons\n(HFCs)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.72', None, None, '--Containing bromochlorodifluoromethane,\nbromotrifluoromethane or dibromotetrafluoroethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.73', None, None, '--Containing hydrobromofluorocarbons (HBFCs)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.74', None, None, '--Containing hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs),\nwhether or not containing perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or\nhydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not containing\nchlorofluorocarbons (CFCs)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.75', None, None, '--Containing carbon tetrachloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.76', None, None, '--Containing 1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl\nchloroform)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.77', None, None, '--Containing bromomethane (methyl bromide) or\nbromochloromethane', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.78', None, None, '--Containing perfluorocarbons (PFCs) or', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), but not containing\nchlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) or\nhydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs)', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.8', None, None, '-Goods specified in Subheading Note 3 to this\nChapter:', '', None, None], ['3824.81', None, None, '--Containing oxirane (ethylene oxide)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.82', None, None, '--Containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs),\npolychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) or polybrominated\nbiphenyls (PBBs)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.83', None, None, '--Containing tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) phosphate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.84', None, None, '-Containing aldrin (ISO), camphechlor (ISO)\n(toxaphene), chlordane (ISO), chlordecone (ISO),\nDDT (ISO) (clofenotane (INN), 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-\nbis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane), dieldrin (ISO, INN),\nendosulfan (ISO), endrin (ISO), heptachlor (ISO) or\nmirex (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.85', None, None, '--Containing 1,2,3,4,5,6-hexachlorocyclohexane\n(HCH (ISO)), including lindane (ISO, INN)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.86', None, None, '--Containing pentachlorobenzene (ISO) or\nhexachlorobenzene (ISO)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.87', None, None, '--Containing perfluorooctane sulphonic acid, its salts,\nperfluorooctane sulphonamides, or perfluorooctane\nsulphonyl fluoride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.88', None, None, '--Containing tetra-, penta-, hexa- hepta- or\noctabromodiphenyl ethers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.9', None, None, '-Other', '', None, None], ['3824.91', None, None, '--Mixtures and preparations consisting mainly of (5-\nethyl-2- methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2-dioxaphosphinan-5-\nyl)methyl methyl methylphosphonate and bis[(5-\nethyl-2-methyl-2-oxido-1,3,2- dioxaphosphinan-5-\nyl)methyl] methylphosphonate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3824.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825', None, None, 'Residual products of the chemical or allied\nindustries, not elsewhere specified or included;\nmunicipal waste; sewage sludge; other wastes\nspecified in Note 6 to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['3825.10', None, None, '-Municipal waste', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.20', None, None, '-Sewage sludge', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.30', None, None, '-Clinical waste', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.4', None, None, '-Waste organic solvents:', '', None, None], ['3825.41', None, None, '--Halogenated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.50', None, None, '-Wastes of metal pickling liquors, hydraulic fluids,\nbrake fluids and anti-freeze fluids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.6', None, None, '-Other wastes from chemical or allied industries:', '', None, None], ['3825.61', None, None, '--Mainly containing organic constituents', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3825.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3826', None, None, 'Biodiesel and mixtures thereof, not containing or\ncontaining less than 70% by weight of petroleum\noils or oils obtained from bituminous minerals.', '', None, None], ['3826.00', None, None, '-Biodiesel and mixtures thereof, not containing or\ncontaining less than 70% by weight of petroleum oils\nor oils obtained from bituminous minerals.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION VII -PLASTICS AND ARITLCES THEREOF; RUBBER AND\nARTICLES THEREOF', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 39', None, None, 'Plastics and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['3901', None, None, 'Polymers of ethylene, in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3901.10', None, None, '-Polyethylene having a specific gravity of less than\n0.94', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3901.20', None, None, '-Polyethylene having a specific gravity of 0.94 or\nmore', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3901.30', None, None, '-Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3901.40', None, None, '-Ethylene-alpha-olefin copolymers, having a specific\ngravity of less than 0.94', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3901.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3902', None, None, 'Polymers of propylene or of other olefins, in\nprimary forms.', '', None, None], ['3902.10', None, None, '-Polypropylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3902.20', None, None, '-Polyisobutylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3902.30', None, None, '-Propylene copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3902.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3903', None, None, 'Polymers of styrene, in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3903.1', None, None, '-Polystyrene:', '', None, None], ['3903.11', None, None, '--Expansible', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3903.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3903.20', None, None, '-Styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN) copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3903.30', None, None, '-Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3903.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904', None, None, 'Polymers of vinyl chloride or of other halogenated\nolefins, in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3904.10', None, None, '-Poly (vinyl chloride), not mixed with any other\nsubstances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.2', None, None, '-Other poly (vinyl chloride):', '', None, None], ['3904.21', None, None, '--Non-plasticised', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.22', None, None, '--Plasticised', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.30', None, None, '-Vinyl chloride-vinyl acetate copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.40', None, None, '-Other vinyl chloride copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.50', None, None, '-Vinylidene chloride polymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.6', None, None, '-Fluoro-polymers:', '', None, None], ['3904.61', None, None, '--Polytetrafluoroethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3904.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905', None, None, 'Polymers of vinyl acetate or of other vinyl esters,\nin primary forms; other vinyl polymers in\nprimary forms.', '', None, None], ['3905.1', None, None, '-Poly(vinyl acetate):', '', None, None], ['3905.12', None, None, '--In aqueous dispersion', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.2', None, None, '-Vinyl acetate copolymers:', '', None, None], ['3905.21', None, None, '--In aqueous dispersion', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.30', None, None, '-Poly(vinyl alcohol), whether or not containing\nunhydrolysed acetate groups', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['3905.91', None, None, '--Copolymers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3905.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3906', None, None, 'Acrylic polymers in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3906.10', None, None, '-Poly(methyl methacrylate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3906.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907', None, None, 'Polyacetals, other polyethers and epoxide resins,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'in primary forms; polycarbonates, alkyd resins,\npolyallyl esters and other polyesters, in primary\nforms.', '', None, None], ['3907.10', None, None, '-Polyacetals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.20', None, None, '-Other polyethers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.30', None, None, '-Epoxide resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.40', None, None, '-Polycarbonates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.50', None, None, '-Alkyd resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.6', None, None, '-Poly(ethylene terephthalate):', '', None, None], ['3907.61', None, None, '--Having a viscosity number of 78 ml/g or higher', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.70', None, None, '--Poly(lactic acid)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.9', None, None, '-Other polyesters:', '', None, None], ['3907.91', None, None, '--Unsaturated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3907.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3908', None, None, 'Polyamides in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3908.10', None, None, '-Polyamide-6, -11, -12, -6,6, -6,9, -6,10 or -6,12', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3908.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909', None, None, 'Amino-resins, phenolic resins and polyurethanes,\nin primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3909.10', None, None, '-Urea resins; thiourea resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909.20', None, None, '-Melamine resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909.3', None, None, '-Other amino-resins:', '', None, None], ['3909.31', None, None, '--Poly(methylene phenyl isocyanate) (crude MDI,\npolymeric MDI)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909.40', None, None, '-Phenolic resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3909.50', None, None, '-Polyurethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3910', None, None, 'Silicones in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3910.00', None, None, '-Silicones in primary forms.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3911', None, None, 'Petroleum resins, coumarone-indene resins,\npolyterpenes, polysulphides, polysulphones and', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'other products specified in Note 3 to this Chapter,\nnot elsewhere specified or included, in primary\nforms.', '', None, None], ['3911.10', None, None, '-Petroleum resins, coumarone, indene or coumarone-\nindene resins and polyterpenes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3911.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912', None, None, 'Cellulose and its chemical derivatives, not\nelsewhere specified or included, in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3912.1', None, None, '-Cellulose acetates:', '', None, None], ['3912.11', None, None, '--Non-plasticised', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912.12', None, None, '--Plasticised', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912.20', None, None, '-Cellulose nitrates (including collodions)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912.3', None, None, '-Cellulose ethers:', '', None, None], ['3912.31', None, None, '--Carboxymethylcellulose and its salts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3912.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3913', None, None, 'Natural polymers (for example, alginic acid) and\nmodified natural polymers (for example, hardened\nproteins, chemical derivatives of natural rubber),\nnot elsewhere specified or included, in primary\nforms.', '', None, None], ['3913.10', None, None, '-Alginic acid, its salts and esters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3913.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3914', None, None, 'Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headings\n39.01 to 39.13, in primary forms.', '', None, None], ['3914.00', None, None, '-Ion-exchangers based on polymers of headings\n39.01 to 39.13, in primary forms.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3915', None, None, 'Waste, parings and scrap, of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3915.10', None, None, '-Of polymers of ethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3915.20', None, None, '-Of polymers of styrene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3915.30', None, None, '-Of polymers of vinyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3915.90', None, None, '-Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3916', None, None, 'Monofilament of which any cross-sectional\ndimension exceeds 1 ㎜, rods, sticks and profile\nshapes, whether or not surface-worked but not\notherwise worked, of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3916.10', None, None, '-Of polymers of ethylene', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3916.20', None, None, '-Of polymers of vinyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3916.90', None, None, '-Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917', None, None, 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, and fittings therefor (for\nexample, joints, elbows, flanges), of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3917.10', None, None, '-Artificial guts (sausage casings) of hardened protein\nor of cellulosic materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.2', None, None, '-Tubes, pipes and hoses, rigid:', '', None, None], ['3917.21', None, None, '--Of polymers of ethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.22', None, None, '--Of polymers of propylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.23', None, None, '--Of polymers of vinyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.29', None, None, '--Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.3', None, None, '-Other tubes, pipes and hoses:', '', None, None], ['3917.31', None, None, '--Flexible tubes, pipes and hoses, having a minimum\nburst pressure of 27.6 MPa', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.32', None, None, '--Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with\nother materials, without fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.33', None, None, '--Other, not reinforced or otherwise combined with\nother materials, with fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3917.40', None, None, '-Fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3918', None, None, 'Floor coverings of plastics, whether or not self-\nadhesive, in rolls or in the form of tiles; wall or\nceiling coverings of plastics, as defined in Note 9 to\nthis Chapter.', '', None, None], ['3918.10', None, None, '-Of polymers of vinyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3918.90', None, None, '-Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3919', None, None, 'Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, foil, tape, strip\nand other flat shapes, of plastics, whether or not in\nrolls.', '', None, None], ['3919.10', None, None, '-In rolls of a width not exceeding 20 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3919.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920', None, None, 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of plastics,\nnon-cellular and not reinforced, laminated,\nsupported or similarly combined with other\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['3920.10', None, None, '-Of polymers of ethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.20', None, None, '-Of polymers of propylene', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.30', None, None, '-Of polymers of styrene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.4', None, None, '-Of polymers of vinyl chloride:', '', None, None], ['3920.43', None, None, '--Containing by weight not less than 6 % of\nplasticisers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.5', None, None, '-Of acrylic polymers:', '', None, None], ['3920.51', None, None, '--Of poly(methyl methacrylate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.6', None, None, '-Of polycarbonates, alkyd resins, polyallyl esters\nor other polyesters:', '', None, None], ['3920.61', None, None, '--Of polycarbonates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.62', None, None, '--Of poly(ethylene terephthalate)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.63', None, None, '--Of unsaturated polyesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.69', None, None, '--Of other polyesters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.7', None, None, '-Of cellulose or its chemical derivatives:', '', None, None], ['3920.71', None, None, '--Of regenerated cellulose', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.73', None, None, '--Of cellulose acetate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.79', None, None, '--Of other cellulose derivatives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.9', None, None, '-Of other plastics:', '', None, None], ['3920.91', None, None, '--Of poly(vinyl butyral)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.92', None, None, '--Of polyamides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.93', None, None, '--Of amino-resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.94', None, None, '--Of phenolic resins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3920.99', None, None, '--Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921', None, None, 'Other plates, sheets, film, foil and strip, of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3921.1', None, None, '-Cellular:', '', None, None], ['3921.11', None, None, '--Of polymers of styrene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921.12', None, None, '--Of polymers of vinyl chloride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921.13', None, None, '--Of polyurethanes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921.14', None, None, '--Of regenerated cellulose', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921.19', None, None, '--Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3921.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3922', None, None, 'Baths, shower-baths, sinks, wash-basins, bidets,\nlavatory pans, seats and covers, flushing cisterns\nand similar sanitary ware, of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3922.10', None, None, '-Baths, shower-baths, sinks and wash-basins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3922.20', None, None, '-Lavatory seats and covers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3922.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923', None, None, 'Articles for the conveyance or packing of goods, of\nplastics; stoppers, lids, caps and other closures, of\nplastics.', '', None, None], ['3923.10', None, None, '-Boxes, cases, crates and similar articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.2', None, None, '-Sacks and bags (including cones):', '', None, None], ['3923.21', None, None, '--Of polymers of ethylene', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.29', None, None, '--Of other plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.30', None, None, '-Carboys, bottles, flasks and similar articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.40', None, None, '-Spools, cops, bobbins and similar supports', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.50', None, None, '-Stoppers, lids, caps and other closures', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3923.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3924', None, None, 'Tableware, kitchenware, other household articles\nand hygienic or toilet articles, of plastics.', '', None, None], ['3924.10', None, None, '-Tableware and kitchenware', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3924.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3925', None, None, "Builders' ware of plastics, not elsewhere specified\nor included.", '', None, None], ['3925.10', None, None, '-Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, of a\ncapacity exceeding 300 ℓ', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3925.20', None, None, '-Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for\ndoors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3925.30', None, None, '-Shutters, blinds (including Venetian blinds) and\nsimilar articles and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3925.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3926', None, None, 'Other articles of plastics and articles of other\nmaterials of headings 39.01 to 39.14.', '', None, None], ['3926.10', None, None, '-Office or school supplies', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3926.20', None, None, '-Articles of apparel and clothing accessories\n(including gloves, mittens and mitts)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3926.30', None, None, '-Fittings for furniture, coachwork or the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3926.40', None, None, '-Statuettes and other ornamental articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['3926.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 40', None, None, 'Rubber and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['4001', None, None, 'Natural rubber, balata, gutta-percha, guayule,\nchicle and similar natural gums, in primary forms\nor in plates, sheets or strip.', '', None, None], ['4001.10', None, None, '-Natural rubber latex, whether or not pre-vulcanised', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4001.2', None, None, '-Natural rubber in other forms:', '', None, None], ['4001.21', None, None, '--Smoked sheets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4001.22', None, None, '--Technically specified natural rubber (TSNR)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4001.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4001.30', None, None, '-Balata, gutta-percha, guayule, chicle and similar\nnatural gums', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002', None, None, 'Synthetic rubber and factice derived from oils, in\nprimary forms or in plates, sheets or strip;\nmixtures of any product of heading 40.01 with any\nproduct of this heading, in primary forms or in\nplates, sheets or strip.', '', None, None], ['4002.1', None, None, '-Styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR); carboxylated\nstyrene-butadiene rubber (XSBR):', '', None, None], ['4002.11', None, None, '--Latex', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.20', None, None, '-Butadiene rubber (BR)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.3', None, None, '-Isobutene-isoprene (butyl) rubber (IIR); halo-\nisobutene-isoprene rubber (CIIR or BIIR):', '', None, None], ['4002.31', None, None, '--Isobutene-isoprene (butyl) rubber (IIR)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.4', None, None, '-Chloroprene (chlorobutadiene) rubber (CR):', '', None, None], ['4002.41', None, None, '--Latex', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.5', None, None, '-Acrylonitrile-butadiene rubber (NBR):', '', None, None], ['4002.51', None, None, '--Latex', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.60', None, None, '-Isoprene rubber (IR)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.70', None, None, '-Ethylene-propylene-non-conjugated diene rubber\n(EPDM)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.80', None, None, '-Mixtures of any product of heading 40.01 with any\nproduct of this heading', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4002.91', None, None, '--Latex', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4002.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4003', None, None, 'Reclaimed rubber in primary forms or in plates,\nsheets or strip.', '', None, None], ['4003.00', None, None, '-Reclaimed rubber in primary forms or in plates,\nsheets or strip.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4004', None, None, 'Waste, parings and scrap of rubber (other than\nhard rubber) and powders and granules obtained\ntherefrom.', '', None, None], ['4004.00', None, None, '-Waste, parings and scrap of rubber (other than hard\nrubber) and powders and granules obtained\ntherefrom.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4005', None, None, 'Compounded rubber, unvulcanised, in primary\nforms or in plates, sheets or strip.', '', None, None], ['4005.10', None, None, '-Compounded with carbon black or silica', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4005.20', None, None, '-Solutions; dispersions other than those of\nsubheading 4005.10', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4005.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4005.91', None, None, '--Plates, sheets and strip', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4005.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4006', None, None, 'Other forms (for example, rods, tubes and profile\nshapes) and articles (for example, discs and rings),\nof unvulcanised rubber.', '', None, None], ['4006.10', None, None, '-"Camel-back" strips for retreading rubber tyres', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4006.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4007', None, None, 'Vulcanised rubber thread and cord.', '', None, None], ['4007.00', None, None, '-Vulcanised rubber thread and cord.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4008', None, None, 'Plates, sheets, strip, rods and profile shapes, of\nvulcanised rubber other than hard rubber.', '', None, None], ['4008.1', None, None, '-Of cellular rubber:', '', None, None], ['4008.11', None, None, '--Plates, sheets and strip', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4008.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4008.2', None, None, '-Of non-cellular rubber:', '', None, None], ['4008.21', None, None, '--Plates, sheets and strip', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4008.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009', None, None, 'Tubes, pipes and hoses, of vulcanised rubber other\nthan hard rubber, with or without their fittings\n(for example, joints, elbows, flanges).', '', None, None], ['4009.1', None, None, '-Not reinforced or otherwise combined with other\nmaterials:', '', None, None], ['4009.11', None, None, '--Without fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.12', None, None, '--With fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.2', None, None, '-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with\nmetal:', '', None, None], ['4009.21', None, None, '--Without fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.22', None, None, '--With fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.3', None, None, '-Reinforced or otherwise combined only with\ntextile materials:', '', None, None], ['4009.31', None, None, '--Without fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.32', None, None, '--With fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.4', None, None, '-Reinforced or otherwise combined with other\nmaterials:', '', None, None], ['4009.41', None, None, '--Without fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4009.42', None, None, '--With fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010', None, None, 'Conveyor or transmission belts or belting, of\nvulcanised rubber.', '', None, None], ['4010.1', None, None, '-Conveyor belts or belting:', '', None, None], ['4010.11', None, None, '--Reinforced only with metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.12', None, None, '--Reinforced only with textile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.3', None, None, '-Transmission belts or belting:', '', None, None], ['4010.31', None, None, '--Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-\nsection (V- belts), V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding\n180 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.32', None, None, '--Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal cross-\nsection (V-belts), other than V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding\n180 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.33', None, None, '--Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'crosssection (V-belts), V-ribbed, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 180 cm but not exceeding\n240 cm', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.34', None, None, '--Endless transmission belts of trapezoidal\ncrosssection (V-belts), other than Vribbed, of an\noutside circumference exceeding 180 cm but not\nexceeding 240 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.35', None, None, '--Endless synchronous belts, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 60 cm but not exceeding\n150 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.36', None, None, '--Endless synchronous belts, of an outside\ncircumference exceeding 150 cm but not exceeding\n198 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4010.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011', None, None, 'New pneumatic tyres, of rubber.', '', None, None], ['4011.10', None, None, '-Of a kind used on motor cars (including station\nwagons and racing cars)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.20', None, None, '-Of a kind used on buses or lorries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.30', None, None, '-Of a kind used on aircraft', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.40', None, None, '-Of a kind used on motorcycles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.50', None, None, '-Of a kind used on bicycles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.70', None, None, '-Of a kind used on agricultural or forestry vehicles\nand machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.80', None, None, '-Of a kind used on construction, mining or industrial\nhandling vehicles and machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4011.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012', None, None, 'Retreaded or used pneumatic tyres of rubber;\nsolid or cushion tyres, tyre treads and tyre flaps,\nof rubber.', '', None, None], ['4012.1', None, None, '-Retreaded tyres:', '', None, None], ['4012.11', None, None, '--Of a kind used on motor cars (including station\nwagons and racing cars)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012.12', None, None, '--Of a kind used on buses or lorries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012.13', None, None, '--Of a kind used on aircraft', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012.20', None, None, '-Used pneumatic tyres', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4012.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4013', None, None, 'Inner tubes, of rubber.', '', None, None], ['4013.10', None, None, '-Of a kind used on motor cars (including station\nwagons and racing cars), buses or lorries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4013.20', None, None, '-Of a kind used on bicycles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4013.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4014', None, None, 'Hygienic or pharmaceutical articles (including\nteats), of vulcanised rubber other than hard\nrubber, with or without fittings of hard rubber.', '', None, None], ['4014.10', None, None, '-Sheath contraceptives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4014.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4015', None, None, 'Articles of apparel and clothing accessories\n(including gloves, mittens and mitts), for all\npurposes, of vulcanised rubber other than hard\nrubber.', '', None, None], ['4015.1', None, None, '-Gloves, mittens and mitts:', '', None, None], ['4015.11', None, None, '--Surgical', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4015.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4015.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016', None, None, 'Other articles of vulcanised rubber other than\nhard rubber.', '', None, None], ['4016.10', None, None, '-Of cellular rubber', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4016.91', None, None, '--Floor coverings and mats', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.92', None, None, '--Erasers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.93', None, None, '--Gaskets, washers and other seals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.94', None, None, '--Boat or dock fenders, whether or not inflatable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.95', None, None, '--Other inflatable articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4016.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4017', None, None, 'Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms,\nincluding waste and scrap; articles of hard\nrubber.', '', None, None], ['4017.00', None, None, '-Hard rubber (for example, ebonite) in all forms,\nincluding waste and scrap; articles of hard rubber.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION VIII -RAW HIDES AND SKINS, LEATHER, FURSKINS AND\nARTICLES THEREOF; SADDLERY AND HARNESS; TRAVEL GOODS,\nHANDBAGS AND SIMILAR CONTAINERS; ARTICLES OF ANIMAL GUT\n(OTHER THAN SILK-WORM GUT)', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 41', None, None, 'Raw Hides and Skins (Other Than Furskins) and\nLeather', '', None, None], ['4101', None, None, 'Raw hides and skins of bovine (including buffalo)', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'or equine animals (fresh, or salted, dried, limed,\npickled or otherwise preserved, but not tanned,\nparchment-dressed or further prepared), whether\nor not dehaired or split.', '', None, None], ['4101.20', None, None, '-Whole hides and skins, unsplit, of a weight per skin\nnot exceeding 8 kg when simply dried, 10 kg when\ndry-salted, or 16 kg when fresh, wet-salted or\notherwise preserved', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4101.50', None, None, '-Whole hides and skins, of a weight exceeding 16 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4101.90', None, None, '-Other, including butts, bends and bellies', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4102', None, None, 'Raw skins of sheep or lambs (fresh, or salted,\ndried, limed, pickled or otherwise preserved, but\nnot tanned, parchment-dressed or further\nprepared), whether or not with wool on or split,\nother than those excluded by Note 1 (c) to this\nChapter.', '', None, None], ['4102.10', None, None, '-With wool on', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4102.2', None, None, '-Without wool on:', '', None, None], ['4102.21', None, None, '--Pickled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4102.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4103', None, None, 'Other raw hides and skins (fresh, or salted, dried,\nlimed, pickled or otherwise preserved, but not\ntanned, parchment-dressed or further prepared),\nwhether or not dehaired or split, other than those\nexcluded by Note 1 (b) or 1 (c) to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['4103.20', None, None, '-Of reptiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4103.30', None, None, '-Of swine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4103.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4104', None, None, 'Tanned or crust hides and skins of bovine\n(including buffalo) or equine animals, without\nhair on, whether or not split, but not further\nprepared.', '', None, None], ['4104.1', None, None, '-In the wet state (including wet-blue):', '', None, None], ['4104.11', None, None, '--Full grains, unsplit; grain splits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4104.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4104.4', None, None, '-In the dry state (crust):', '', None, None], ['4104.41', None, None, '--Full grains, unsplit; grain splits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4104.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4105', None, None, 'Tanned or crust skins of sheep or lambs, without', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'wool on, whether or not split, but not further\nprepared.', '', None, None], ['4105.10', None, None, '-In the wet state (including wet-blue)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4105.30', None, None, '-In the dry state (crust)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106', None, None, 'Tanned or crust hides and skins of other animals,\nwithout wool or hair on, whether or not split, but\nnot further prepared.', '', None, None], ['4106.2', None, None, '-Of goats or kids:', '', None, None], ['4106.21', None, None, '--In the wet state (including wet-blue)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.22', None, None, '--In the dry state (crust)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.3', None, None, '-Of swine:', '', None, None], ['4106.31', None, None, '--In the wet state (including wet-blue)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.32', None, None, '--In the dry state (crust)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.40', None, None, '-Of reptiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4106.91', None, None, '--In the wet state (including wet-blue)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4106.92', None, None, '--In the dry state (crust)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107', None, None, 'Leather further prepared after tanning or\ncrusting, including parchment-dressed leather, of\nbovine (including buffalo) or equine animals,\nwithout hair on, whether or not split, other than\nleather of heading 41.14.', '', None, None], ['4107.1', None, None, '-Whole hides and skins:', '', None, None], ['4107.11', None, None, '--Full grains, unsplit', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107.12', None, None, '--Grain splits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107.9', None, None, '-Other, including sides:', '', None, None], ['4107.91', None, None, '--Full grains, unsplit', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107.92', None, None, '--Grain splits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4107.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4112', None, None, 'Leather further prepared after tanning or\ncrusting, including parchment-dressed leather, of\nsheep or lamb, without wool on, whether or not\nsplit, other than leather of heading 41.14.', '', None, None], ['4112.00', None, None, '-Leather further prepared after tanning or crusting,\nincluding parchment-dressed leather, of sheep or', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['', None, None, 'lamb, without wool on, whether or not split, other\nthan leather of heading 41.14.', '', None, None], ['4113', None, None, 'Leather further prepared after tanning or\ncrusting, including parchment-dressed leather, of\nother animals, without wool or hair on, whether or\nnot split, other than leather of heading 41.14.', '', None, None], ['4113.10', None, None, '-Of goats or kids', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4113.20', None, None, '-Of swine', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4113.30', None, None, '-Of reptiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4113.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4114', None, None, 'Chamois (including combination chamois) leather;\npatent leather and patent laminated leather;\nmetallised leather.', '', None, None], ['4114.10', None, None, '-Chamois (including combination chamois) leather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4114.20', None, None, '-Patent leather and patent laminated leather;\nmetallised leather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4115', None, None, 'Composition leather with a basis of leather or\nleather fibre, in slabs, sheets or strip, whether or\nnot in rolls; parings and other waste of leather or\nof composition leather, not suitable for the\nmanufacture of leather articles; leather dust,\npowder and flour.', '', None, None], ['4115.10', None, None, '-Composition leather with a basis of leather or leather\nfibre, in slabs, sheets or strip, whether or not in rolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4115.20', None, None, '-Parings and other waste of leather or of composition\nleather, not suitable for the manufacture of leather\narticles; leather dust, powder and flour', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 42', None, None, 'Articles of Leather; Saddlery and Harness; Travel\nGoods, Handbags and Similar Containers;\nArticles of Animal Gut (Other Than Silk-worm\nGut)', '', None, None], ['4201', None, None, 'Saddlery and harness for any animal (including\ntraces, leads, knee pads, muzzles, saddle cloths,\nsaddle bags, dog coats and the like), of any\nmaterial.', '', None, None], ['4201.00', None, None, '-Saddlery and harness for any animal (including\ntraces, leads, knee pads, muzzles, saddle cloths,\nsaddle bags, dog coats and the like), of any material.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202', None, None, 'Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases, executive-cases,\nbrief-cases, school satchels, spectacle cases,\nbinocular cases, camera cases, musical instrument\ncases, gun cases, holsters and similar containers;\ntravelling-bags, insulated food or beverages bags,\ntoilet bags, rucksacks, handbags, shopping-bags,\nwallets, purses, map-cases, cigarette-cases,\ntobacco-pouches, tool bags, sports bags, bottle-', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'cases, jewellery boxes, powder-boxes, cutlery cases\nand similar containers, of leather or of\ncomposition leather, of sheeting of plastics, of\ntextile materials, of vulcanised fibre or of\npaperboard, or wholly or mainly covered with\nsuch materials or with paper.', '', None, None], ['4202.1', None, None, '-Trunks, suit-cases, vanity-cases, executive-cases,\nbrief-cases, school satchels and similar containers:', '', None, None], ['4202.11', None, None, '--With outer surface of leather or of composition\nleather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.12', None, None, '--With outer surface of plastics or of textile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.2', None, None, '-Handbags, whether or not with shoulder strap,\nincluding those without handle:', '', None, None], ['4202.21', None, None, '--With outer surface of leather or of composition\nleather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.22', None, None, '--With outer surface of sheeting of plastics or of\ntextile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.3', None, None, '-Articles of a kind normally carried in the pocket\nor in the handbag:', '', None, None], ['4202.31', None, None, '--With outer surface of leather or of composition\nleather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.32', None, None, '--With outer surface of sheeting of plastics or of\ntextile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4202.91', None, None, '--With outer surface of leather or of composition\nleather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.92', None, None, '--With outer surface of sheeting of plastics or of\ntextile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4202.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4203', None, None, 'Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, of\nleather or of composition leather.', '', None, None], ['4203.10', None, None, '-Articles of apparel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4203.2', None, None, '-Gloves, mittens and mitts:', '', None, None], ['4203.21', None, None, '--Specially designed for use in sports', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4203.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4203.30', None, None, '-Belts and bandoliers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4203.40', None, None, '-Other clothing accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4205', None, None, 'Other articles of leather or of composition leather.', '', None, None], ['4205.00', None, None, '-Other articles of leather or of composition leather.', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4206', None, None, "Articles of gut (other than silk-worm gut), of\ngoldbeater's skin, of bladders or of tendons.", '', None, None], ['4206.00', None, None, "-Articles of gut (other than silk-worm gut), of\ngoldbeater's skin, of bladders or of tendons.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 43', None, None, 'Furskins and Artificial Fur; Manufactures\nThereof', '', None, None], ['4301', None, None, "Raw furskins (including heads, tails, paws and\nother pieces or cuttings, suitable for furriers' use),\nother than raw hides and skins of heading 41.01,\n41.02 or 41.03.", '', None, None], ['4301.10', None, None, '-Of mink, whole, with or without head, tail or paws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4301.30', None, None, '-Of lamb, the following : Astrakhan, Broadtail,\nCaracul, Persian and similar lamb, Indian, Chinese,\nMongolian or Tibetan lamb, whole, with or without\nhead, tail or paws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4301.60', None, None, '-Of fox, whole, with or without head, tail or paws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4301.80', None, None, '-Other furskins, whole, with or without head, tail or\npaws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4301.90', None, None, "-Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings,\nsuitable for furriers' use", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4302', None, None, 'Tanned or dressed furskins (including heads, tails,\npaws and other pieces or cuttings), unassembled,\nor assembled (without the addition of other\nmaterials) other than those of heading 43.03.', '', None, None], ['4302.1', None, None, '-Whole skins, with or without head, tail or paws,\nnot assembled:', '', None, None], ['4302.11', None, None, '--Of mink', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4302.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4302.20', None, None, '-Heads, tails, paws and other pieces or cuttings, not\nassembled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4302.30', None, None, '-Whole skins and pieces or cuttings thereof,\nassembled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4303', None, None, 'Articles of apparel, clothing accessories and other\narticles of furskin.', '', None, None], ['4303.10', None, None, '-Articles of apparel and clothing accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4303.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4304', None, None, 'Artificial fur and articles thereof.', '', None, None], ['4304.00', None, None, '-Artificial fur and articles thereof.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION IX -WOOD AND ARTICLES OF WOOD; WOOD CHARCOAL; CORK\nAND ARTICLES OF CORK; MANUFACTURES OF STRAW, OF ESPARTO OR\nOF OTHER PLAITING MATERIALS; BASKETWARD AND WICKER-WORK', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 44', None, None, 'Wood and Articles of Wood; Wood Charcoal', '', None, None], ['4401', None, None, 'Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'in similar forms; wood in chips or particles;\nsawdust and wood waste and scrap, whether or\nnot agglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or\nsimilar forms.', '', None, None], ['4401.1', None, None, '-Fuel wood, in logs, in billets, in twigs, in faggots\nor in similar forms:', '', None, None], ['4401.11', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.12', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.2', None, None, '-Wood in chips or particles:', '', None, None], ['4401.21', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.22', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.3', None, None, '-Sawdust and wood waste and scrap,\nagglomerated in logs, briquettes, pellets or similar\nforms:', '', None, None], ['4401.31', None, None, '--Wood pellets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4401.40', None, None, '-Sawdust and wood waste and scrap, not\nagglomerated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4402', None, None, 'Wood charcoal (including shell or nut charcoal),\nwhether or not agglomerated.', '', None, None], ['4402.10', None, None, '-Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4402.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403', None, None, 'Wood in the rough, whether or not stripped of\nbark or sapwood, or roughly squared.', '', None, None], ['4403.1', None, None, '-Treated with paint, stains, creosote or other\npreservatives:', '', None, None], ['4403.11', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.12', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.2', None, None, '-Other, coniferous:', '', None, None], ['4403.21', None, None, '--Of pine (Pinus spp.), of which any cross-sectional\ndimension is 15 cm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.22', None, None, '--Of pine (Pinus spp.), other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.23', None, None, '--Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea spp.), of which\nany cross-sectional dimension is 15 cm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.24', None, None, '--Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea spp.), other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.25', None, None, '--Other, of which any cross-sectional dimension is 15\ncm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.26', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.4', None, None, '-Other, of tropical wood:', '', None, None], ['4403.41', None, None, '--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti\nBakau', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4403.91', None, None, '--Of oak (Quercus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.93', None, None, '--Of beech (Fagus spp.), of which any cross-sectional\ndimension is 15 cm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.94', None, None, '--Of beech (Fagus spp.), other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.95', None, None, '--Of birch (Betula spp.), of which any cross-sectional\ndimension is 15 cm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.96', None, None, '--Of birch (Betula spp.), other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.97', None, None, '--Of poplar and aspen (Populus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.98', None, None, '--Of eucalyptus (Eucalyptus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4403.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4404', None, None, 'Hoopwood; split poles; piles, pickets and stakes of\nwood, pointed but not sawn lengthwise; wooden\nsticks, roughly trimmed but not turned, bent or\notherwise worked, suitable for the manufacture of\nwalking-sticks, umbrellas, tool handles or the like;\nchipwood and the like.', '', None, None], ['4404.10', None, None, '-Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4404.20', None, None, '-Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4405', None, None, 'Wood wool; wood flour.', '', None, None], ['4405.00', None, None, '-Wood wool; wood flour.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4406', None, None, 'Railway or tramway sleepers (cross-ties) of wood.', '', None, None], ['4406.1', None, None, '-Not impregnated:', '', None, None], ['4406.11', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4406.12', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4406.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4406.91', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4406.92', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407', None, None, 'Wood sawn or chipped lengthwise, sliced or\npeeled, whether or not planed, sanded or end-\njointed, of a thickness exceeding 6 ㎜.', '', None, None], ['4407.1', None, None, '-Coniferous:', '', None, None], ['4407.11', None, None, '--Of pine (Pinus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.12', None, None, '--Of fir (Abies spp.) and spruce (Picea spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.2', None, None, '-Of tropical wood:', '', None, None], ['4407.21', None, None, '--Mahogany (Swietenia spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.22', None, None, '--Virola, Imbua and Balsa', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.25', None, None, '--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti\nBakau', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.26', None, None, '--White Lauan, White Meranti, White Seraya, Yellow\nMeranti and Alan', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.27', None, None, '--Sapelli', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.28', None, None, '--Iroko', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4407.91', None, None, '--Of oak (Quercus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.92', None, None, '--Of beech (Fagus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.93', None, None, '--Of maple (Acer spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.94', None, None, '--Of cherry (Prunus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.95', None, None, '--Of ash (Fraxinus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.96', None, None, '--Of birch (Betula spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.97', None, None, '--Of poplar and aspen (Populus spp.)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4407.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4408', None, None, 'Sheets for veneering (including those obtained by\nslicing laminated wood), for plywood or for\nsimilar laminated wood and other wood, sawn\nlengthwise, sliced or peeled, whether or not\nplaned, sanded, spliced or end-jointed, of a\nthickness not exceeding 6 ㎜.', '', None, None], ['4408.10', None, None, '-Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4408.3', None, None, '-Of tropical wood:', '', None, None], ['4408.31', None, None, '--Dark Red Meranti, Light Red Meranti and Meranti\nBakau', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4408.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4408.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4409', None, None, 'Wood (including strips and friezes for parquet\nflooring, not assembled) continuously shaped\n(tongued, grooved, rebated, chamfered, V-jointed,\nbeaded, moulded, rounded or the like) along any\nof its edges, ends or faces, whether or not planed,\nsanded or end-jointed.', '', None, None], ['4409.10', None, None, '-Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4409.2', None, None, '-Non-coniferous:', '', None, None], ['4409.21', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4409.22', None, None, '--Of tropical wood', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4409.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4410', None, None, 'Particle board, oriented strand board (OSB) and\nsimilar board (for example, waferboard) of wood\nor other ligneous materials, whether or not\nagglomerated with resins or other organic binding\nsubstances.', '', None, None], ['4410.1', None, None, '-Of wood:', '', None, None], ['4410.11', None, None, '--Particle board', 'CTH', None, None], ['4410.12', None, None, '--Oriented strand board (OSB)', 'CTH', None, None], ['4410.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['4410.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411', None, None, 'Fibreboard of wood or other ligneous materials,\nwhether or not bonded with resins or other\norganic substances.', '', None, None], ['4411.1', None, None, '-Medium density fibreboard (MDF):', '', None, None], ['4411.12', None, None, '--Of a thickness not exceeding 5 mm', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411.13', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 5 mm but not exceeding 9\nmm', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411.14', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 9 mm', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4411.92', None, None, '--Of a density exceeding 0.8g/cm³', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411.93', None, None, '--Of a density exceeding 0.5 g/cm³ but not exceeding\n0.8 g/cm³', 'CTH', None, None], ['4411.94', None, None, '--Of a density not exceeding 0.5 g/cm³', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412', None, None, 'Plywood, veneered panels and similar laminated\nwood.', '', None, None], ['4412.10', None, None, '-Of bamboo', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412.3', None, None, '-Other plywood, consisting solely of sheets of wood\n(other than bamboo), each ply not exceeding 6 mm\nthickness:', '', None, None], ['4412.31', None, None, '--With at least one outer ply of tropical wood', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412.33', None, None, '--Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous\nwood of the species alder (Alnus spp.), ash (Fraxinus', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'spp.), beech (Fagus spp.), birch (Betula spp.), cherry\n(Prunus spp.), chestnut (Castanea spp.), elm (Ulmus\nspp.), eucalyptus (eucalyptus spp.), hickory (Carya\nspp.), horse chestnut (Aesculus spp.), lime (Tilia\nspp.), maple (Acer spp.), oak (Quercus spp.), plane\ntree (Platanus spp.), poplar and aspen (Populus spp.),\nrobinia (robinia spp.), tulipwood (Liriodendron spp.)\nor walnut (Juglans spp.)', '', None, None], ['4412.34', None, None, '--Other, with at least one outer ply of non-coniferous\nwood not specified under Subheading 4412.33', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412.39', None, None, '--Other, with both outer plies of coniferous wood', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4412.94', None, None, '--Blockboard, laminboard and battenboard', 'CTH', None, None], ['4412.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['4413', None, None, 'Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips or profile\nshapes.', '', None, None], ['4413.00', None, None, '-Densified wood, in blocks, plates, strips or profile\nshapes.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4414', None, None, 'Wooden frames for paintings, photographs,\nmirrors or similar objects.', '', None, None], ['4414.00', None, None, '-Wooden frames for paintings, photographs, mirrors\nor similar objects.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4415', None, None, 'Packing cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar\npackings, of wood; cable-drums of wood; pallets,\nbox pallets and other load boards, of wood; pallet\ncollars of wood.', '', None, None], ['4415.10', None, None, '-Cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar packings;\ncable-drums', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4415.20', None, None, '-Pallets, box pallets and other load boards; pallet\ncollars', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4416', None, None, "Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other coopers'\nproducts and parts thereof, of wood, including\nstaves.", '', None, None], ['4416.00', None, None, "-Casks, barrels, vats, tubs and other coopers' products\nand parts thereof, of wood, including staves.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4417', None, None, 'Tools, tool bodies, tool handles, broom or brush\nbodies and handles, of wood; boot or shoe lasts\nand trees, of wood.', '', None, None], ['4417.00', None, None, '-Tools, tool bodies, tool handles, broom or brush\nbodies and handles, of wood; boot or shoe lasts and\ntrees, of wood.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418', None, None, "Builders' joinery and carpentry of wood,\nincluding cellular wood panels, assembled flooring\npanels, shingles and shakes.", '', None, None], ['4418.10', None, None, '-Windows, French-windows and their frames', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.20', None, None, '-Doors and their frames and thresholds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.40', None, None, '-Shuttering for concrete constructional work', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.50', None, None, '-Shingles and shakes', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.60', None, None, '-Posts and beams', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.7', None, None, '-Assembled flooring panels:', '', None, None], ['4418.73', None, None, '--Of bamboo or with at least the top layer (wear\nlayer) of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.74', None, None, '--Other, for mosaic floors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.75', None, None, '--Other, multilayer', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4418.91', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4418.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4419', None, None, 'Tableware and kitchenware, of wood.', '', None, None], ['4419.1', None, None, '-Of bamboo:', '', None, None], ['4419.11', None, None, '--Bread boards, chopping boards and similar boards', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4419.12', None, None, '--Chopsticks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4419.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4419.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4420', None, None, 'Wood marquetry and inlaid wood; caskets and\ncases for jewellery or cutlery, and similar articles,\nof wood; statuettes and other ornaments, of wood;\nwooden articles of furniture not falling in Chapter\n94.', '', None, None], ['4420.10', None, None, '-Statuettes and other ornaments, of wood', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4420.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4421', None, None, 'Other articles of wood.', '', None, None], ['4421.10', None, None, '-Clothes hangers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4421.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4421.91', None, None, '--Of bamboo:', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4421.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 45', None, None, 'Cork and Articles of Cork', '', None, None], ['4501', None, None, 'Natural cork, raw or simply prepared; waste\ncork; crushed, granulated or ground cork.', '', None, None], ['4501.10', None, None, '-Natural cork, raw or simply prepared', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4501.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4502', None, None, 'Natural cork, debacked or roughly squared, or in\nrectangular (including square) blocks, plates,\nsheets or strip (including sharp-edged blanks for\ncorks or stoppers).', '', None, None], ['4502.00', None, None, '-Natural cork, debacked or roughly squared, or in\nrectangular (including square) blocks, plates, sheets\nor strip (including sharp-edged blanks for corks or\nstoppers).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4503', None, None, 'Articles of natural cork.', '', None, None], ['4503.10', None, None, '-Corks and stoppers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4503.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4504', None, None, 'Agglomerated cork (with or without a binding\nsubstance) and articles of agglomerated cork.', '', None, None], ['4504.10', None, None, '-Blocks, plates, sheets and strip; tiles of any shape;\nsolid cylinders, including discs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4504.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 46', None, None, 'Manufactures of Straw, of Esparto or of Other\nPlaiting Materials; Basketware and Wickerwork', '', None, None], ['4601', None, None, 'Plaits and similar products of plaiting materials,\nwhether or not assembled into strips; plaiting\nmaterials, plaits and similar products of plaiting\nmaterials, bound together in parallel strands or\nwoven, in sheet form, whether or not being\nfinished articles (for example, mats, matting,\nscreens).', '', None, None], ['4601.2', None, None, '-Mats, matting and screens of vegetable materials:', '', None, None], ['4601.21', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.22', None, None, '--Of rattan', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4601.92', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.93', None, None, '--Of rattan', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.94', None, None, '--Of other vegetable materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4601.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4602', None, None, 'Basketwork, wickerwork and other articles, made\ndirectly to shape from plaiting materials or made\nup from goods of heading 46.01; articles of loofah.', '', None, None], ['4602.1', None, None, '-Of vegetable materials:', '', None, None], ['4602.11', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4602.12', None, None, '--Of rattan', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4602.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4602.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION X -PULP OF WOOD OR OF OTHER FIBROUS CELLULOSIC\nMATERIAL; RECOVERED (WASTE AND SCRAP) PAPER OR PAPERBOARD;\nPAPER AND PAPERBOARD AND ARTICLES THEREOF', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 47', None, None, 'Pulp of Wood or of Other Fibrous Cellulosic\nMaterial; Recovered (Waste and Scrap) Paper or\nPaperboard', '', None, None], ['4701', None, None, 'Mechanical wood pulp.', '', None, None], ['4701.00', None, None, '-Mechanical wood pulp.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4702', None, None, 'Chemical wood pulp, dissolving grades.', '', None, None], ['4702.00', None, None, '-Chemical wood pulp, dissolving grades.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4703', None, None, 'Chemical wood pulp, soda or sulphate, other than\ndissolving grades.', '', None, None], ['4703.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['4703.11', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4703.19', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4703.2', None, None, '-Semi-bleached or bleached:', '', None, None], ['4703.21', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4703.29', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4704', None, None, 'Chemical wood pulp, sulphite, other than\ndissolving grades.', '', None, None], ['4704.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['4704.11', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4704.19', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4704.2', None, None, '-Semi-bleached or bleached:', '', None, None], ['4704.21', None, None, '--Coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4704.29', None, None, '--Non-coniferous', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4705', None, None, 'Wood pulp obtained by a combination of\nmechanical and chemical pulping processes.', '', None, None], ['4705.00', None, None, '-Wood pulp obtained by a combination of mechanical\nand chemical pulping processes.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706', None, None, 'Pulps of fibres derived from recovered (waste and\nscrap) paper or paperboard or of other fibrous\ncellulosic material.', '', None, None], ['4706.10', None, None, '-Cotton linters pulp', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706.20', None, None, '-Pulps of fibres derived from recovered (waste and\nscrap) paper or paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706.30', None, None, '-Other, of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4706.91', None, None, '--Mechanical', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706.92', None, None, '--Chemical', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4706.93', None, None, '--Obtained by a combination of mechanical and\nchemical processes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4707', None, None, 'Recovered (waste and scrap) paper or\npaperboard.', '', None, None], ['4707.10', None, None, '-Unbleached kraft paper or paperboard or corrugated\npaper or paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4707.20', None, None, '-Other paper or paperboard made mainly of bleached\nchemical pulp, not coloured in the mass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4707.30', None, None, '-Paper or paperboard made mainly of mechanical\npulp (for example, newspapers, journals and similar\nprinted matter)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4707.90', None, None, '-Other, including unsorted waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 48', None, None, 'Paper and Paperboard; Articles of Paper Pulp, of\nPaper or of Paperboard', '', None, None], ['4801', None, None, 'Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.', '', None, None], ['4801.00', None, None, '-Newsprint, in rolls or sheets.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802', None, None, 'Uncoated paper and paperboard, of a kind used\nfor writing, printing or other graphic purposes,\nand non perforated punch-cards and punch tape\npaper, in rolls or rectangular (including square)\nsheets, of any size, other than paper of heading\n48.01 or 48.03; hand-made paper and paperboard.', '', None, None], ['4802.10', None, None, '-Hand-made paper and paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.20', None, None, '-Paper and paperboard of a kind used as a base for\nphoto-sensitive, heat-sensitive or electro-sensitive\npaper or paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.40', None, None, '-Wallpaper base', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.5', None, None, '-Other paper and paperboard, not containing\nfibres obtained by a mechanical or chemi-\nmechanical process or of which not more than\n10 % by weight of the total fibre content consists\nof such fibres:', '', None, None], ['4802.54', None, None, '--Weighing less than 40 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.55', None, None, '--Weighing 40 g/m² or more but not more than 150\ng/m², in rolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.56', None, None, '--Weighing 40 g/m² or more but not more than 150', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'g/m², in sheets with one side not exceeding 435 mm\nand the other side not exceeding 297 mm in the\nunfolded state', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.57', None, None, '--Other, weighing 40 g/m² or more but not more than\n150 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.58', None, None, '--Weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.6', None, None, '-Other paper and paperboard, of which more than\n10 % by weight of the total fibre content consists\nof fibres obtained by a mechanical or chemi-\nmechanical process:', '', None, None], ['4802.61', None, None, '--In rolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.62', None, None, '--In sheets with one side not exceeding 435 mm and\nthe other side not exceeding 297 mm in the unfolded\nstate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4802.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4803', None, None, 'Toilet or facial tissue stock, towel or napkin stock\nand similar paper of a kind used for household or\nsanitary purposes, cellulose wadding and webs of\ncellulose fibres, whether or not creped, crinkled,\nembossed, perforated, surface-coloured, surface-\ndecorated or printed, in rolls or sheets.', '', None, None], ['4803.00', None, None, '-Toilet or facial tissue stock, towel or napkin stock\nand similar paper of a kind used for household or\nsanitary purposes, cellulose wadding and webs of\ncellulose fibres, whether or not creped, crinkled,\nembossed, perforated, surface-coloured, surface-\ndecorated or printed, in rolls or sheets.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804', None, None, 'Uncoated kraft paper and paperboard, in rolls or\nsheets, other than that of heading 48.02 or 48.03.', '', None, None], ['4804.1', None, None, '-Kraftliner:', '', None, None], ['4804.11', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.2', None, None, '-Sack kraft paper:', '', None, None], ['4804.21', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.3', None, None, '-Other kraft paper and paperboard weighing 150\ng/m² or less:', '', None, None], ['4804.31', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.4', None, None, '-Other kraft paper and paperboard weighing\nmore than 150 g/m² but less than 225 g/m²:', '', None, None], ['4804.41', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.42', None, None, '--Bleached uniformly throughout the mass and of\nwhich more than 95 % by weight of the total fibre\ncontent consists of wood fibres obtained by a\nchemical process', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.5', None, None, '-Other kraft paper and paperboard weighing 225\ng/m² or more:', '', None, None], ['4804.51', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.52', None, None, '--Bleached uniformly throughout the mass and of\nwhich more than 95 % by weight of the total fibre\ncontent consists of wood obtained by a chemical\nprocess', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4804.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805', None, None, 'Other uncoated paper and paperboard, in rolls or\nsheets, not further worked or processed than as\nspecified in Note 3 to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['4805.1', None, None, '-Fluting paper:', '', None, None], ['4805.11', None, None, '--Semi-chemical fluting paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.12', None, None, '--Straw fluting paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.2', None, None, '-Testliner (recycled liner board):', '', None, None], ['4805.24', None, None, '--Weighing 150 g/m² or less', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.25', None, None, '--Weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.30', None, None, '-Sulphite wrapping paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.40', None, None, '-Filter paper and paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.50', None, None, '-Felt paper and paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4805.91', None, None, '--Weighing 150 g/m² or less', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.92', None, None, '--Weighing more than 150 g/m² but less than 225\ng/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4805.93', None, None, '--Weighing 225 g/m² or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4806', None, None, 'Vegetable parchment, greaseproof papers, tracing\npapers and glassine and other glazed transparent\nor translucent papers, in rolls or sheets.', '', None, None], ['4806.10', None, None, '-Vegetable parchment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4806.20', None, None, '-Greaseproof papers', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4806.30', None, None, '-Tracing papers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4806.40', None, None, '-Glassine and other glazed transparent or translucent\npapers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4807', None, None, 'Composite paper and paperboard (made by\nsticking flat layers of paper or paperboard\ntogether with an adhesive), not surface-coated or\nimpregnated, whether or not internally\nreinforced, in rolls or sheets.', '', None, None], ['4807.00', None, None, '-Composite paper and paperboard (made by sticking\nflat layers of paper or paperboard together with an\nadhesive), not surface-coated or impregnated,\nwhether or not internally reinforced, in rolls or sheets.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4808', None, None, 'Paper and paperboard, corrugated (with or\nwithout glued flat surface sheets), creped,\ncrinkled, embossed or perforated, in rolls or\nsheets, other than paper of the kind described in\nheading 48.03.', '', None, None], ['4808.10', None, None, '-Corrugated paper and paperboard, whether or not\nperforated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4808.40', None, None, '-Kraft paper, creped or crinkled, whether or not\nembossed or perforated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4808.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4809', None, None, 'Carbon paper, self-copy paper and other copying\nor transfer papers (including coated or\nimpregnated paper for duplicator stencils or offset\nplates), whether or not printed, in rolls or sheets.', '', None, None], ['4809.20', None, None, '-Self-copy paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4809.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810', None, None, 'Paper and paperboard, coated on one or both\nsides with kaolin (China clay) or other inorganic\nsubstances, with or without a binder, and with no\nother coating, whether or not surface-coloured,\nsurface-decorated or printed, in rolls or\nrectangular (including square) sheets, of any size.', '', None, None], ['4810.1', None, None, '-Paper and paperboard of a kind used for writing,\nprinting or other graphic purposes, not containing\nfibres obtained by a mechanical or chemi-\nmechanical process or of which not more than\n10 % by weight of the total fibre content consists\nof such fibres:', '', None, None], ['4810.13', None, None, '--In rolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.14', None, None, '--In sheets with one side not exceeding 435 mm and\nthe other side not exceeding 297 mm in the unfolded\nstate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.2', None, None, '-Paper and paperboard of a kind used for writing,\nprinting or other graphic purposes, of which more\nthan 10 % by weight of the total fibre content\nconsists of fibres obtained by a mechanical or\nchemi-mechanical process:', '', None, None], ['4810.22', None, None, '--Light-weight coated paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.3', None, None, '-Kraft paper and paperboard, other than that of a\nkind used for writing, printing or other graphic\npurposes:', '', None, None], ['4810.31', None, None, '--Bleached uniformly throughout the mass and of\nwhich more than 95 % by weight of the total fibre\ncontent consists of wood fibres obtained by a\nchemical process, and weighing 150 g/m² or less', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.32', None, None, '--Bleached uniformly throughout the mass and of\nwhich more than 95 % by weight of the total fibre\ncontent consists of wood fibres obtained by a\nchemical process, and weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.9', None, None, '-Other paper and paperboard:', '', None, None], ['4810.92', None, None, '--Multi-ply', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4810.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811', None, None, 'Paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and webs of\ncellulose fibres, coated, impregnated, covered,\nsurface-coloured, surface-decorated or printed, in\nrolls or rectangular (including square) sheets, of\nany size, other than goods of the kind described in\nheading 48.03, 48.09 or 48.10.', '', None, None], ['4811.10', None, None, '-Tarred, bituminised or asphalted paper and\npaperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.4', None, None, '-Gummed or adhesive paper and paperboard:', '', None, None], ['4811.41', None, None, '--Self-adhesive', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.5', None, None, '-Paper and paperboard coated, impregnated or\ncovered with plastics (excluding adhesives):', '', None, None], ['4811.51', None, None, '--Bleached, weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.60', None, None, '-Paper and paperboard, coated, impregnated or\ncovered with wax, paraffin wax, stearin, oil or\nglycerol', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4811.90', None, None, '-Other paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'webs of cellulose fibres', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4812', None, None, 'Filter blocks, slabs and plates, of paper pulp.', '', None, None], ['4812.00', None, None, '-Filter blocks, slabs and plates, of paper pulp.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4813', None, None, 'Cigarette paper, whether or not cut to size or in\nthe form of booklets or tubes.', '', None, None], ['4813.10', None, None, '-In the form of booklets or tubes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4813.20', None, None, '-In rolls of a width not exceeding 5 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4813.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4814', None, None, 'Wallpaper and similar wall coverings; window\ntransparencies of paper.', '', None, None], ['4814.20', None, None, '-Wallpaper and similar wall coverings, consisting of\npaper coated or covered, on the face side, with a\ngrained, embossed, coloured, design-printed or\notherwise decorated layer of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4814.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4816', None, None, 'Carbon paper, self-copy paper and other copying\nor transfer papers (other than those of heading\n48.09), duplicator stencils and offset plates, of\npaper, whether or not put up in boxes.', '', None, None], ['4816.20', None, None, '-Self-copy paper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4816.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4817', None, None, 'Envelopes, letter cards, plain postcards and\ncorrespondence cards, of paper or paperboard;\nboxes, pouches, wallets and writing compendiums,\nof paper or paperboard, containing an assortment\nof paper stationery.', '', None, None], ['4817.10', None, None, '-Envelopes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4817.20', None, None, '-Letter cards, plain postcards and correspondence\ncards', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4817.30', None, None, '-Boxes, pouches, wallets and writing compendiums,\nof paper or paperboard, containing an assortment of\npaper stationery', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4818', None, None, 'Toilet paper and similar paper, cellulose wadding\nor webs of cellulose fibres, of a kind used for\nhousehold or sanitary purposes, in rolls of a width\nnot exceeding 36 cm, or cut to size or shape;\nhandkerchiefs, cleansing tissues, towels,\ntablecloths, serviettes, bed sheets and similar\nhousehold, sanitary or hospital articles, articles of\napparel and clothing accessories, of paper pulp,\npaper, cellulose wadding or webs of cellulose\nfibres.', '', None, None], ['4818.10', None, None, '-Toilet paper', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4818.20', None, None, '-Handkerchiefs, cleansing or facial tissues and towels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4818.30', None, None, '-Tablecloths and serviettes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4818.50', None, None, '-Articles of apparel and clothing accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4818.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819', None, None, 'Cartons, boxes, cases, bags and other packing\ncontainers, of paper, paperboard, cellulose\nwadding or webs of cellulose fibres; box files,\nletter trays, and similar articles, of paper or\npaperboard of a kind used in offices, shops or the\nlike.', '', None, None], ['4819.10', None, None, '-Cartons, boxes and cases, of corrugated paper or\npaperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819.20', None, None, '-Folding cartons, boxes and cases, of non-corrugated\npaper or paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819.30', None, None, '-Sacks and bags, having a base of a width of 40 cm or\nmore', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819.40', None, None, '-Other sacks and bags, including cones', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819.50', None, None, '-Other packing containers, including record sleeves', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4819.60', None, None, '-Box files, letter trays, storage boxes and similar\narticles, of a kind used in offices, shops or the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820', None, None, 'Registers, account books, note books, order books,\nreceipt books, letter pads, memorandum pads,\ndiaries and similar articles, exercise books,\nblotting-pads, binders (loose-leaf or other),\nfolders, file covers, manifold business forms,\ninterleaved carbon sets and other articles of\nstationery, of paper or paperboard; albums for\nsamples or for collections and book covers, of\npaper or paperboard.', '', None, None], ['4820.10', None, None, '-Registers, account books, note books, order books,\nreceipt books, letter pads, memorandum pads, diaries\nand similar articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820.20', None, None, '-Exercise books', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820.30', None, None, '-Binders (other than book covers), folders and file\ncovers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820.40', None, None, '-Manifold business forms and interleaved carbon sets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820.50', None, None, '-Albums for samples or for collections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4820.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4821', None, None, 'Paper or paperboard labels of all kinds, whether\nor not printed.', '', None, None], ['4821.10', None, None, '-Printed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4821.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4822', None, None, 'Bobbins, spools, cops and similar supports of\npaper pulp, paper or paperboard (whether or not\nperforated or hardened).', '', None, None], ['4822.10', None, None, '-Of a kind used for winding textile yarn', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4822.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823', None, None, 'Other paper, paperboard, cellulose wadding and\nwebs of cellulose fibres, cut to size or shape; other\narticles of paper pulp, paper, paperboard,\ncellulose wadding or webs of cellulose fibres.', '', None, None], ['4823.20', None, None, '-Filter paper and paperboard', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823.40', None, None, '-Rolls, sheets and dials, printed for self-recording\napparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823.6', None, None, '-Trays, dishes, plates, cups and the like, of paper\nor paperboard:', '', None, None], ['4823.61', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823.70', None, None, '-Moulded or pressed articles of paper pulp', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4823.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 49', None, None, 'Printed Books, Newspapers, Pictures and Other\nProducts of the Printing Industry; Manuscripts,\nTypescripts and Plans', '', None, None], ['4901', None, None, 'Printed books, brochures, leaflets and similar\nprinted matter, whether or not in single sheets.', '', None, None], ['4901.10', None, None, '-In single sheets, whether or not folded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4901.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4901.91', None, None, '--Dictionaries and encyclopaedias, and serial\ninstalments thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4901.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4902', None, None, 'Newspapers, journals and periodicals, whether or\nnot illustrated or containing advertising material.', '', None, None], ['4902.10', None, None, '-Appearing at least four times a week', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4902.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4903', None, None, "Children's picture, drawing or colouring books.", '', None, None], ['4903.00', None, None, "-Children's picture, drawing or colouring books.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4904', None, None, 'Music, printed or in manuscript, whether or not', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'bound or illustrated.', '', None, None], ['4904.00', None, None, '-Music, printed or in manuscript, whether or not\nbound or illustrated.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4905', None, None, 'Maps and hydrographic or similar charts of all\nkinds including atlases, wall maps, topographical\nplans and globes, printed.', '', None, None], ['4905.10', None, None, '-Globes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4905.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4905.91', None, None, '--In book form', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4905.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4906', None, None, 'Plans and drawings for architectural, engineering,\nindustrial, commercial, topographical or similar\npurposes, being originals drawn by hand; hand-\nwritten texts; photographic reproductions on\nsensitised paper and carbon copies of the\nforegoing.', '', None, None], ['4906.00', None, None, '-Plans and drawings for architectural, engineering,\nindustrial, commercial, topographical or similar\npurposes, being originals drawn by hand; hand-\nwritten texts; photographic reproductions on\nsensitised paper and carbon copies of the foregoing.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4907', None, None, 'Unused postage, revenue or similar stamps of\ncurrent or new issue in the country in which they\nhave, or will have, a recognised face value; stamp-\nimpressed paper; banknotes; cheque forms; stock,\nshare or bond certificates and similar documents\nof title.', '', None, None], ['4907.00', None, None, '-Unused postage, revenue or similar stamps of\ncurrent or new issue in the country in which they\nhave, or will have, a recognised face value; stamp-\nimpressed paper; banknotes; cheque forms; stock,\nshare or bond certificates and similar documents of\ntitle.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4908', None, None, 'Transfers (decalcomanias).', '', None, None], ['4908.10', None, None, '-Transfers (decalcomanias), vitrifiable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4908.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4909', None, None, 'Printed or illustrated postcards; printed cards\nbearing personal greetings, messages or\nannouncements, whether or not illustrated, with\nor without envelopes or trimmings.', '', None, None], ['4909.00', None, None, '-Printed or illustrated postcards; printed cards bearing\npersonal greetings, messages or announcements,\nwhether or not illustrated, with or without envelopes\nor trimmings.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4910', None, None, 'Calendars of any kind, printed, including\ncalendar blocks.', '', None, None], ['4910.00', None, None, '-Calendars of any kind, printed, including calendar\nblocks.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4911', None, None, 'Other printed matter, including printed pictures\nand photographs.', '', None, None], ['4911.10', None, None, '-Trade advertising material, commercial catalogues\nand the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4911.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['4911.91', None, None, '--Pictures, designs and photographs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['4911.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XI -TEXTILES AND TEXTILE ARTICLES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 50', None, None, 'Silk', '', None, None], ['5001', None, None, 'Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling.', '', None, None], ['5001.00', None, None, '-Silk-worm cocoons suitable for reeling.', 'CC', None, None], ['5002', None, None, 'Raw silk (not thrown).', '', None, None], ['5002.00', None, None, '-Raw silk (not thrown).', 'CC', None, None], ['5003', None, None, 'Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for\nreeling, yarn waste and garnetted stock).', '', None, None], ['5003.00', None, None, '-Silk waste (including cocoons unsuitable for reeling,\nyarn waste and garnetted stock).', 'CC', None, None], ['5004', None, None, 'Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk waste)\nnot put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5004.00', None, None, '-Silk yarn (other than yarn spun from silk waste) not\nput up for retail sale.', 'CTH', None, None], ['5005', None, None, 'Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up for retail\nsale.', '', None, None], ['5005.00', None, None, '-Yarn spun from silk waste, not put up for retail sale.', 'CTH', None, None], ['5006', None, None, 'Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste, put up\nfor retail sale; silk-worm gut.', '', None, None], ['5006.00', None, None, '-Silk yarn and yarn spun from silk waste, put up for\nretail sale; silk-worm gut.', 'CTH', None, None], ['5007', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of silk or of silk waste.', '', None, None], ['5007.10', None, None, '-Fabrics of noil silk', 'CTH', None, None], ['5007.20', None, None, '-Other fabrics, containing 85 % or more by weight of\nsilk or of silk waste other than noil silk', 'CTH', None, None], ['5007.90', None, None, '-Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['Chapter 51', None, None, 'Wool, Fine or Coarse Animal Hair; Horsehair\nYarn and Woven Fabric', '', None, None], ['5101', None, None, 'Wool, not carded or combed.', '', None, None], ['5101.1', None, None, '-Greasy, including fleece-washed wool:', '', None, None], ['5101.11', None, None, '--Shorn wool', 'CC', None, None], ['5101.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5101.2', None, None, '-Degreased, not carbonised:', '', None, None], ['5101.21', None, None, '--Shorn wool', 'CC', None, None], ['5101.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5101.30', None, None, '-Carbonised', 'CC', None, None], ['5102', None, None, 'Fine or coarse animal hair, not carded or combed.', '', None, None], ['5102.1', None, None, '-Fine animal hair:', '', None, None], ['5102.11', None, None, '--Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', 'CC', None, None], ['5102.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5102.20', None, None, '-Coarse animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5103', None, None, 'Waste of wool or of fine or coarse animal hair,\nincluding yarn waste but excluding garnetted\nstock.', '', None, None], ['5103.10', None, None, '-Noils of wool or of fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5103.20', None, None, '-Other waste of wool or of fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5103.30', None, None, '-Waste of coarse animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5104', None, None, 'Garnetted stock of wool or of fine or coarse\nanimal hair.', '', None, None], ['5104.00', None, None, '-Garnetted stock of wool or of fine or coarse animal\nhair.', 'CC', None, None], ['5105', None, None, 'Wool and fine or coarse animal hair, carded or\ncombed (including combed wool in fragments).', '', None, None], ['5105.10', None, None, '-Carded wool', 'CC', None, None], ['5105.2', None, None, '-Wool tops and other combed wool:', '', None, None], ['5105.21', None, None, '--Combed wool in fragments', 'CC', None, None], ['5105.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5105.3', None, None, '-Fine animal hair, carded or combed:', '', None, None], ['5105.31', None, None, '--Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', 'CC', None, None], ['5105.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5105.40', None, None, '-Coarse animal hair, carded or combed', 'CC', None, None], ['5106', None, None, 'Yarn of carded wool, not put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5106.10', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of wool', 'CTH', None, None], ['5106.20', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of wool', 'CTH', None, None], ['5107', None, None, 'Yarn of combed wool, not put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5107.10', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of wool', 'CTH', None, None], ['5107.20', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of wool', 'CTH', None, None], ['5108', None, None, 'Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or combed), not\nput up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5108.10', None, None, '-Carded', 'CTH', None, None], ['5108.20', None, None, '-Combed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5109', None, None, 'Yarn of wool or of fine animal hair, put up for\nretail sale.', '', None, None], ['5109.10', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of wool or of\nfine animal hair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5109.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5110', None, None, 'Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair\n(including gimped horsehair yarn), whether or not\nput up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5110.00', None, None, '-Yarn of coarse animal hair or of horsehair (including\ngimped horsehair yarn), whether or not put up for\nretail sale.', 'CTH', None, None], ['5111', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of carded wool or of carded fine\nanimal hair.', '', None, None], ['5111.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of wool or of\nfine animal hair:', '', None, None], ['5111.11', None, None, '--Of a weight not exceeding 300 g/m²', 'CTH', None, None], ['5111.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5111.20', None, None, '-Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-made', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'filaments', '', None, None], ['5111.30', None, None, '-Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-made staple\nfibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5111.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5112', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of combed wool or of combed fine\nanimal hair.', '', None, None], ['5112.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of wool or of\nfine animal hair:', '', None, None], ['5112.11', None, None, '--Of a weight not exceeding 200 g/m²', 'CTH', None, None], ['5112.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5112.20', None, None, '-Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-made\nfilaments', 'CTH', None, None], ['5112.30', None, None, '-Other, mixed mainly or solely with man-made staple\nfibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5112.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5113', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair or of\nhorsehair.', '', None, None], ['5113.00', None, None, '-Woven fabrics of coarse animal hair or of horsehair.', 'CTH', None, None], ['Chapter 52', None, None, 'Cotton', '', None, None], ['5201', None, None, 'Cotton, not carded or combed.', '', None, None], ['5201.00', None, None, '-Cotton, not carded or combed.', 'CC', None, None], ['5202', None, None, 'Cotton waste (including yarn waste and garnetted\nstock).', '', None, None], ['5202.10', None, None, '-Yarn waste (including thread waste)', 'CC', None, None], ['5202.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['5202.91', None, None, '--Garnetted stock', 'CC', None, None], ['5202.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5203', None, None, 'Cotton, carded or combed.', '', None, None], ['5203.00', None, None, '-Cotton, carded or combed.', 'CC', None, None], ['5204', None, None, 'Cotton sewing thread, whether or not put up for\nretail sale.', '', None, None], ['5204.1', None, None, '-Not put up for retail sale:', '', None, None], ['5204.11', None, None, '--Containing 85 % or more by weight of cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5204.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5204.20', None, None, '-Put up for retail sale', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205', None, None, 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread),\ncontaining 85 % or more by weight of cotton, not\nput up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5205.1', None, None, '-Single yarn,of uncombed fibres:', '', None, None], ['5205.11', None, None, '--Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding\n14 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.12', None, None, '--Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but not less than\n232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric number but not\nexceeding 43 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.13', None, None, '--Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but not less than\n192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric number but not\nexceeding 52 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.14', None, None, '--Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but not less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric number but not\nexceeding 80 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.15', None, None, '--Measuring less than 125 decitex (exceeding 80\nmetric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.2', None, None, '-Single yarn, of combed fibres:', '', None, None], ['5205.21', None, None, '--Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding\n14 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.22', None, None, '--Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but not less than\n232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric number but not\nexceeding 43 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.23', None, None, '--Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but not less than\n192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric number but not\nexceeding 52 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.24', None, None, '--Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but not less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric number but not\nexceeding 80 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.26', None, None, '--Measuring less than 125 decitex but not less than\n106.38 decitex (exceeding 80 metric number but not\nexceeding 94 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.27', None, None, '--Measuring less than 106.38 decitex but not less than\n83.33 decitex (exceeding 94 metric number but not\nexceeding 120 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.28', None, None, '--Measuring less than 83.33 decitex (exceeding 120\nmetric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.3', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of uncombed\nfibres:', '', None, None], ['5205.31', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn 714.29 decitex or more\n(not exceeding 14 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.32', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 714.29 decitex\nbut not less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.33', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 232.56 decitex\nbut not less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.34', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 192.31 decitex\nbut not less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.35', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.4', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of combed\nfibres:', '', None, None], ['5205.41', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn 714.29 decitex or more\n(not exceeding 14 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.42', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 714.29 decitex\nbut not less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.43', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 232.56 decitex\nbut not less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 52 metric number per', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'single yarn)', '', None, None], ['5205.44', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 192.31 decitex\nbut not less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.46', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 125 decitex but\nnot less than 106.38 decitex (exceeding 80 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 94 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.47', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 106.38 decitex\nbut not less than 83.33 decitex (exceeding 94 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 120 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5205.48', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 83.33 decitex\n(exceeding 120 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206', None, None, 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread),\ncontaining less than 85 % by weight of cotton, not\nput up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5206.1', None, None, '-Single yarn, of uncombed fibres:', '', None, None], ['5206.11', None, None, '--Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding\n14 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.12', None, None, '--Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but not less than\n232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric number but not\nexceeding 43 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.13', None, None, '--Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but not less than\n192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric number but not\nexceeding 52 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.14', None, None, '--Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but not less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric number but not\nexceeding 80 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.15', None, None, '--Measuring less than 125 decitex (exceeding 80\nmetric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.2', None, None, '-Single yarn, of combed fibres:', '', None, None], ['5206.21', None, None, '--Measuring 714.29 decitex or more (not exceeding\n14 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.22', None, None, '--Measuring less than 714.29 decitex but not less than\n232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric number but not\nexceeding 43 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.23', None, None, '--Measuring less than 232.56 decitex but not less than\n192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric number but not\nexceeding 52 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.24', None, None, '--Measuring less than 192.31 decitex but not less than\n125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric number but not\nexceeding 80 metric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.25', None, None, '--Measuring less than 125 decitex (exceeding 80\nmetric number)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.3', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn, of uncombed\nfibres:', '', None, None], ['5206.31', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn 714.29 decitex or more\n(not exceeding 14 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.32', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 714.29 decitex', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'but not less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', '', None, None], ['5206.33', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 232.56 decitex\nbut not less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.34', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 192.31 decitex\nbut not less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.35', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.4', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) of cabled yarn, of combed\nfibres:', '', None, None], ['5206.41', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn 714.29 decitex or more\n(not exceeding 14 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.42', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 714.29 decitex\nbut not less than 232.56 decitex (exceeding 14 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 43 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.43', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 232.56 decitex\nbut not less than 192.31 decitex (exceeding 43 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 52 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.44', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 192.31 decitex\nbut not less than 125 decitex (exceeding 52 metric\nnumber but not exceeding 80 metric number per\nsingle yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5206.45', None, None, '--Measuring per single yarn less than 125 decitex\n(exceeding 80 metric number per single yarn)', 'CTH', None, None], ['5207', None, None, 'Cotton yarn (other than sewing thread) put up for\nretail sale.', '', None, None], ['5207.10', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5207.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing 85 % or more\nby weight of cotton, weighing not more than 200\ng/㎡.', '', None, None], ['5208.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['5208.11', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing not more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.12', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.13', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.19', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.2', None, None, '-Bleached:', '', None, None], ['5208.21', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing not more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.22', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.23', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.29', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.3', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5208.31', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing not more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.32', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.33', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.39', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.4', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours:', '', None, None], ['5208.41', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing not more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.42', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.43', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.49', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.5', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5208.51', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing not more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.52', None, None, '--Plain weave, weighing more than 100 g/㎡', 'CTH', None, None], ['5208.59', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing 85 % or more\nby weight of cotton, weighing more than 200 g/㎡.', '', None, None], ['5209.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['5209.11', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.12', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.19', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.2', None, None, '-Bleached:', '', None, None], ['5209.21', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.22', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.29', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.3', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5209.31', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.32', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.39', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.4', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours:', '', None, None], ['5209.41', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.42', None, None, '--Denim', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.43', None, None, '--Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.49', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.5', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5209.51', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.52', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5209.59', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less than\n85 % by weight of cotton, mixed mainly or solely\nwith man-made fibres, weighing not more than\n200 g/㎡.', '', None, None], ['5210.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['5210.11', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.19', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.2', None, None, '-Bleached:', '', None, None], ['5210.21', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.29', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.3', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5210.31', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.32', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.39', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.4', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours:', '', None, None], ['5210.41', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.49', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.5', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5210.51', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5210.59', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of cotton, containing less than\n85 % by weight of cotton, mixed mainly or solely\nwith man-made fibres, weighing more than 200\ng/㎡.', '', None, None], ['5211.1', None, None, '-Unbleached:', '', None, None], ['5211.11', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.12', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.19', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.20', None, None, '-Bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.3', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5211.31', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.32', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.39', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.4', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours:', '', None, None], ['5211.41', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.42', None, None, '--Denim', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.43', None, None, '--Other fabrics of 3-thread or 4-thread twill, including\ncross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.49', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.5', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5211.51', None, None, '--Plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.52', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill', 'CTH', None, None], ['5211.59', None, None, '--Other fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212', None, None, 'Other woven fabrics of cotton.', '', None, None], ['5212.1', None, None, '-Weighing not more than 200 g/㎡:', '', None, None], ['5212.11', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.12', None, None, '--Bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.13', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.14', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.15', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.2', None, None, '-Weighing more than 200 g/㎡:', '', None, None], ['5212.21', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.22', None, None, '--Bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.23', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.24', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5212.25', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['Chapter 53', None, None, 'Other Vegetable Textile Fibres; Paper Yarn and\nWoven Fabrics of Paper Yarn', '', None, None], ['5301', None, None, 'Flax, raw or processed but not spun; flax tow and\nwaste (including yarn waste and garnetted stock).', '', None, None], ['5301.10', None, None, '-Flax, raw or retted', 'CC', None, None], ['5301.2', None, None, '-Flax, broken, scutched, hackled or otherwise', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'processed, but not spun:', '', None, None], ['5301.21', None, None, '--Broken or scutched', 'CC', None, None], ['5301.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5301.30', None, None, '-Flax tow and waste', 'CC', None, None], ['5302', None, None, 'True hemp (Cannabis sativa L.), raw or processed\nbut not spun; tow and waste of true hemp\n(including yarn waste and garnetted stock).', '', None, None], ['5302.10', None, None, '-True hemp, raw or retted', 'CC', None, None], ['5302.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5303', None, None, 'Jute and other textile bast fibres (excluding flax,\ntrue hemp and ramie), raw or processed but not\nspun; tow and waste of these fibres (including\nyarn waste and garnetted stock).', '', None, None], ['5303.10', None, None, '-Jute and other textile bast fibres, raw or retted', 'CC', None, None], ['5303.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5305', None, None, 'Coconut, abaca (Manila hemp or Musa textilis\nNee), ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, not\nelsewhere specified or included, raw or processed\nbut not spun; tow, noils and waste of these fibres\n(including yarn waste and garnetted stock).', '', None, None], ['5305.00', None, None, '-Coconut, abaca (Manila hemp or Musa textilis Nee),\nramie and other vegetable textile fibres, not\nelsewhere specified or included, raw or processed but\nnot spun; tow, noils and waste of these fibres\n(including yarn waste and garnetted stock).', 'CC', None, None], ['5306', None, None, 'Flax yarn.', '', None, None], ['5306.10', None, None, '-Single', 'CTH', None, None], ['5306.20', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) or cabled', 'CTH', None, None], ['5307', None, None, 'Yarn of jute or of other textile bast fibres of\nheading 53.03.', '', None, None], ['5307.10', None, None, '-Single', 'CTH', None, None], ['5307.20', None, None, '-Multiple (folded) or cabled', 'CTH', None, None], ['5308', None, None, 'Yarn of other vegetable textile fibres; paper yarn.', '', None, None], ['5308.10', None, None, '-Coir yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5308.20', None, None, '-True hemp yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5308.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5309', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of flax.', '', None, None], ['5309.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of flax:', '', None, None], ['5309.11', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5309.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5309.2', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of flax:', '', None, None], ['5309.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5309.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5310', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of jute or of other textile bast fibres\nof heading 53.03.', '', None, None], ['5310.10', None, None, '-Unbleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5310.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5311', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile fibres;\nwoven fabrics of paper yarn.', '', None, None], ['5311.00', None, None, '-Woven fabrics of other vegetable textile fibres;', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'woven fabrics of paper yarn.', '', None, None], ['Chapter 54', None, None, 'Man-made Filaments; Strip and the Like of Man-\nmade Textile Materials', '', None, None], ['5401', None, None, 'Sewing thread of man-made filaments, whether or\nnot put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5401.10', None, None, '-Of synthetic filaments', 'CC', None, None], ['5401.20', None, None, '-Of artificial filaments', 'CC', None, None], ['5402', None, None, 'Synthetic filament yarn (other than sewing\nthread), not put up for retail sale, including\nsynthetic monofilament of less than 67 decitex.', '', None, None], ['5402.1', None, None, '-High tenacity yarn of nylon or other polyamides,\nwhether or not textured:', '', None, None], ['5402.11', None, None, '--Of aramids', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.20', None, None, '-High tenacity yarn of polyesters, whether or not\ntextured', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.3', None, None, '-Textured yarn:', '', None, None], ['5402.31', None, None, '--Of nylon or other polyamides, measuring per single\nyarn not more than 50 tex', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.32', None, None, '--Of nylon or other polyamides, measuring per single\nyarn more than 50 tex', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.33', None, None, '--Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.34', None, None, '--Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.4', None, None, '-Other yarn, single, untwisted or with a twist of\nnot exceeding 50 turns per metre:', '', None, None], ['5402.44', None, None, '--Elastomeric', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.45', None, None, '--Other, Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.46', None, None, '--Other, of polyesters, partially oriented', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.47', None, None, '--Other, Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.48', None, None, '--Other, of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.5', None, None, '-Other yarn, single, with a twist of exceeding 50\nturns per metre:', '', None, None], ['5402.51', None, None, '--Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.52', None, None, '--Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.53', None, None, '--Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.6', None, None, '-Other yarn, multiple (folded) or cabled:', '', None, None], ['5402.61', None, None, '--Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.62', None, None, '--Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.63', None, None, '--Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5402.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5403', None, None, 'Artificial filament yarn (other than sewing\nthread), not put up for retail sale, including\nartificial monofilament of less than 67 decitex.', '', None, None], ['5403.10', None, None, '-High tenacity yarn of viscose rayon', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.3', None, None, '-Other yarn, single:', '', None, None], ['5403.31', None, None, '--Of viscose rayon, untwisted or with a twist not\nexceeding 120 turns per metre', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.32', None, None, '--Of viscose rayon, with a twist exceeding 120 turns\nper metre', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.33', None, None, '--Of cellulose acetate', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.4', None, None, '-Other yarn, multiple (folded) or cabled:', '', None, None], ['5403.41', None, None, '--Of viscose rayon', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.42', None, None, '--Of cellulose acetate', 'CC', None, None], ['5403.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5404', None, None, 'Synthetic monofilament of 67 decitex or more and\nof which no cross-sectional dimension exceeds\n1mm; strip and the like (for example, artificial\nstraw) of synthetic textile materials of an apparent\nwidth not exceeding 5 mm.', '', None, None], ['5404.1', None, None, '-Monofilament:', '', None, None], ['5404.11', None, None, '--Elastomeric', 'CC', None, None], ['5404.12', None, None, '--Other, of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5404.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5404.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5405', None, None, 'Artificial monofilament of 67 decitex or more and\nof which no cross-sectional dimension exceeds\n1mm; strip and the like (for example, artificial\nstraw) of artificial textile materials of an apparent\nwidth not exceeding 5 mm.', '', None, None], ['5405.00', None, None, '-Artificial monofilament of 67 decitex or more and of\nwhich no cross-sectional dimension exceeds 1mm;\nstrip and the like (for example, artificial straw) of\nartificial textile materials of an apparent width not\nexceeding 5 mm.', 'CC', None, None], ['5406', None, None, 'Man-made filament yarn (other than sewing\nthread), put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5406.00', None, None, '-Man-made filament yarn (other than sewing thread),\nput up for retail sale.', 'CC', None, None], ['5407', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of synthetic filament yarn,\nincluding woven fabrics obtained from materials\nof heading 54.04.', '', None, None], ['5407.10', None, None, '-Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of\nnylon or other polyamides or of polyesters', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.20', None, None, '-Woven fabrics obtained from strip or the like', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.30', None, None, '-Fabrics specified in Note 9 to Section XI', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.4', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of filaments of nylon or other polyamides:', '', None, None], ['5407.41', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.42', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.43', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.44', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.5', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of textured polyester filaments:', '', None, None], ['5407.51', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.52', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.53', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.54', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.6', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of polyester filaments:', '', None, None], ['5407.61', None, None, '--Containing 85 % or more by weight of non-textured\npolyester filaments', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.7', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of synthetic filaments:', '', None, None], ['5407.71', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.72', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.73', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.74', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.8', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing less than 85 %\nby weight of synthetic filaments, mixed mainly or\nsolely with cotton:', '', None, None], ['5407.81', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.82', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.83', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.84', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.9', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics:', '', None, None], ['5407.91', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.92', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.93', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5407.94', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of artificial filament yarn,\nincluding woven fabrics obtained from materials\nof heading 54.05.', '', None, None], ['5408.10', None, None, '-Woven fabrics obtained from high tenacity yarn of\nviscose rayon', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.2', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing 85 % or more by\nweight of artificial filament or strip or the like:', '', None, None], ['5408.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.22', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.23', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.24', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.3', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics:', '', None, None], ['5408.31', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.32', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.33', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5408.34', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['Chapter 55', None, None, 'Man-made Staple Fibres', '', None, None], ['5501', None, None, 'Synthetic filament tow.', '', None, None], ['5501.10', None, None, '-Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5501.20', None, None, '-Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5501.30', None, None, '-Acrylic or modacrylic', 'CC', None, None], ['5501.40', None, None, '-Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5501.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5502', None, None, 'Artificial filament tow.', '', None, None], ['5502.10', None, None, '-Of cellulose acetate', 'CC', None, None], ['5502.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5503', None, None, 'Synthetic staple fibres, not carded, combed or\notherwise processed for spinning.', '', None, None], ['5503.1', None, None, '-Of nylon or other polyamides:', '', None, None], ['5503.11', None, None, '--Of aramids', 'CC', None, None], ['5503.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5503.20', None, None, '-Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5503.30', None, None, '-Acrylic or modacrylic', 'CC', None, None], ['5503.40', None, None, '-Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5503.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5504', None, None, 'Artificial staple fibres, not carded, combed or\notherwise processed for spinning.', '', None, None], ['5504.10', None, None, '-Of viscose rayon', 'CC', None, None], ['5504.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5505', None, None, 'Waste (including noils, yarn waste and garnetted\nstock) of man-made fibres.', '', None, None], ['5505.10', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5505.20', None, None, '-Of artificial fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5506', None, None, 'Synthetic staple fibres, carded, combed or\notherwise processed for spinning.', '', None, None], ['5506.10', None, None, '-Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5506.20', None, None, '-Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5506.30', None, None, '-Acrylic or modacrylic', 'CC', None, None], ['5506.40', None, None, '-Of polypropylene', 'CC', None, None], ['5506.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5507', None, None, 'Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed or\notherwise processed for spinning.', '', None, None], ['5507.00', None, None, '-Artificial staple fibres, carded, combed or otherwise\nprocessed for spinning.', 'CC', None, None], ['5508', None, None, 'Sewing thread of man-made staple fibres, whether\nor not put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5508.10', None, None, '-Of synthetic staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5508.20', None, None, '-Of artificial staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509', None, None, 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of synthetic\nstaple fibres, not put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5509.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of staple\nfibres of nylon or other polyamides:', '', None, None], ['5509.11', None, None, '--Single yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.12', None, None, '--Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.2', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of polyester\nstaple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5509.21', None, None, '--Single yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.22', None, None, '--Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.3', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of acrylic or\nmodacrylic staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5509.31', None, None, '--Single yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.32', None, None, '--Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.4', None, None, '-Other yarn, containing 85 % or more by weight\nof synthetic staple flbres:', '', None, None], ['5509.41', None, None, '--Single yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.42', None, None, '--Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.5', None, None, '-Other yarn, of polyester staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5509.51', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with artificial staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.52', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal\nhair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.53', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.6', None, None, '-Other yarn, of acrylic or modacrylic staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5509.61', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal\nhair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.62', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.9', None, None, '-Other yarn:', '', None, None], ['5509.91', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal\nhair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.92', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5509.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5510', None, None, 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of artificial staple\nfibres, not put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5510.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of artificial\nstaple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5510.11', None, None, '--Single yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5510.12', None, None, '--Multiple (folded) or cabled yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5510.20', None, None, '-Other yarn, mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine\nanimal hair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5510.30', None, None, '-Other yarn, mixed mainly or solely with cotton', 'CTH', None, None], ['5510.90', None, None, '-Other yarn', 'CTH', None, None], ['5511', None, None, 'Yarn (other than sewing thread) of man-made\nstaple fibres, put up for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['5511.10', None, None, '-Of synthetic staple fibres, containing 85 % or more\nby weight of such fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5511.20', None, None, '-Of synthetic staple fibres, containing less than 85 %\nby weight of such fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5511.30', None, None, '-Of artificial staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining 85 % or more by weight of synthetic\nstaple fibres.', '', None, None], ['5512.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of polyester\nstaple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5512.11', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512.2', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of acrylic or\nmodacrylic staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5512.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['5512.91', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5512.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining less than 85 % by weight of such fibres,\nmixed mainly or solely with cotton, of a weight not', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'exceeding 170 g/m².', '', None, None], ['5513.1', None, None, '-Unbleached or bleached:', '', None, None], ['5513.11', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.12', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill, of\npolyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.13', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics of polyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.19', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.2', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5513.21', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.23', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics of polyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.29', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.3', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours:', '', None, None], ['5513.31', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.39', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.4', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5513.41', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5513.49', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres,\ncontaining less than 85 % by weight of such fibres,\nmixed mainly or solely with cotton, of a weight\nexceeding 170 g/m².', '', None, None], ['5514.1', None, None, '-Unbleached or bleached:', '', None, None], ['5514.11', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.12', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill, of\npolyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.19', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.2', None, None, '-Dyed:', '', None, None], ['5514.21', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.22', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill, of\npolyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.23', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics of polyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.29', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.30', None, None, '-Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.4', None, None, '-Printed:', '', None, None], ['5514.41', None, None, '--Of polyester staple fibres, plain weave', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.42', None, None, '--3-thread or 4-thread twill, including cross twill, of\npolyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.43', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics of polyester staple fibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5514.49', None, None, '--Other woven fabrics', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515', None, None, 'Other woven fabrics of synthetic staple fibres.', '', None, None], ['5515.1', None, None, '-Of polyester staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5515.11', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with viscose rayon staple\nfibres', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.12', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with man-made filaments', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.13', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal\nhair', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.2', None, None, '-Of acrylic or modacrylic staple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5515.21', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with man-made filaments', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.22', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with wool or fine animal', 'CTH', None, None], ['', None, None, 'hair', '', None, None], ['5515.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.9', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics:', '', None, None], ['5515.91', None, None, '--Mixed mainly or solely with man-made filaments', 'CTH', None, None], ['5515.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of artificial staple fibres.', '', None, None], ['5516.1', None, None, '-Containing 85 % or more by weight of artificial\nstaple fibres:', '', None, None], ['5516.11', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.12', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.13', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.14', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.2', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of artificial\nstaple fibres, mixed mainly or solely with man-\nmade filaments:', '', None, None], ['5516.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.22', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.23', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.24', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.3', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of artificial\nstaple fibres, mixed mainly or solely with wool or\nfine animal hair:', '', None, None], ['5516.31', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.32', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.33', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.34', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.4', None, None, '-Containing less than 85 % by weight of artificial\nstaple fibres, mixed mainly or solely with cotton:', '', None, None], ['5516.41', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.42', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.43', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.44', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.9', None, None, '-Other :', '', None, None], ['5516.91', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.92', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.93', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CTH', None, None], ['5516.94', None, None, '--Printed', 'CTH', None, None], ['Chapter 56', None, None, 'Wadding, Felt and Nonwovens; Special Yarns;\nTwine, Cordage, Ropes and Cables and Articles\nThereof', '', None, None], ['5601', None, None, 'Wadding of textile materials and articles thereof;\ntextile fibres, not exceeding 5 mm in length (flock),\ntextile dust and mill neps.', '', None, None], ['5601.2', None, None, '-Wadding of textile materials and articles thereof:', '', None, None], ['5601.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['5601.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5601.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5601.30', None, None, '-Textile flock and dust and mill neps', 'CC', None, None], ['5602', None, None, 'Felt, whether or not impregnated, coated, covered\nor laminated.', '', None, None], ['5602.10', None, None, '-Needleloom felt and stitch-bonded fibre fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5602.2', None, None, '-Other felt, not impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated:', '', None, None], ['5602.21', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5602.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5602.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5603', None, None, 'Nonwovens, whether or not impregnated, coated,\ncovered or laminated.', '', None, None], ['5603.1', None, None, '-Of man-made filaments:', '', None, None], ['5603.11', None, None, '--Weighing not more than 25 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.12', None, None, '--Weighing more than 25 g/m² but not more than 70\ng/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.13', None, None, '--Weighing more than 70 g/m² but not more than\n150 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.14', None, None, '--Weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['5603.91', None, None, '--Weighing not more than 25 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.92', None, None, '--Weighing more than 25 g/m² but not more than\n70 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.93', None, None, '--Weighing more than 70 g/m² but not more than\n150 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5603.94', None, None, '--Weighing more than 150 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5604', None, None, 'Rubber thread and cord, textile covered; textile\nyarn, and strip and the like of heading 54.04 or\n54.05, impregnated, coated, covered or sheathed\nwith rubber or plastics.', '', None, None], ['5604.10', None, None, '-Rubber thread and cord, textile covered', 'CC', None, None], ['5604.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5605', None, None, 'Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped, being\ntextile yarn, or strip or the like of heading 54.04 or\n54.05, combined with metal in the form of thread,\nstrip or powder or covered with metal.', '', None, None], ['5605.00', None, None, '-Metallised yarn, whether or not gimped, being\ntextile yarn, or strip or the like of heading 54.04 or\n54.05, combined with metal in the form of thread,\nstrip or powder or covered with metal.', 'CC', None, None], ['5606', None, None, 'Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of heading\n54.04 or 54.05, gimped (other than those of\nheading 56.05 and gimped horsehair yarn);\nchenille yarn (including flock chenille yarn); loop\nwale-yarn.', '', None, None], ['5606.00', None, None, '-Gimped yarn, and strip and the like of heading 54.04\nor 54.05, gimped (other than those of heading 56.05\nand gimped horsehair yarn); chenille yarn (including\nflock chenille yarn); loop wale-yarn.', 'CC', None, None], ['5607', None, None, 'Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, whether or not\nplaited or braided and whether or not\nimpregnated, coated, covered or sheathed with\nrubber or plastics.', '', None, None], ['5607.2', None, None, '-Of sisal or other textile fibres of the genus Agave:', '', None, None], ['5607.21', None, None, '--Binder or baler twine', 'CC', None, None], ['5607.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5607.4', None, None, '-Of polyethylene or polypropylene:', '', None, None], ['5607.41', None, None, '--Binder or baler twine', 'CC', None, None], ['5607.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5607.50', None, None, '-Of other synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5607.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5608', None, None, 'Knotted netting of twine, cordage or rope; made\nup fishing nets and other made up nets, of textile\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['5608.1', None, None, '-Of man-made textile materials:', '', None, None], ['5608.11', None, None, '--Made up fishing nets', 'CC', None, None], ['5608.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5608.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5609', None, None, 'Articles of yarn, strip or the like of heading 54.04\nor 54.05, twine, cordage, rope or cables, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['5609.00', None, None, '-Articles of yarn, strip or the like of heading 54.04 or\n54.05, twine, cordage, rope or cables, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 57', None, None, 'Carpets and Other Textile Floor Coverings', '', None, None], ['5701', None, None, 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, knotted,\nwhether or not made up.', '', None, None], ['5701.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5701.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702', None, None, 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, woven,\nnot tufted or flocked, whether or not made up,\nincluding "Kelem", "Schumacks", "Karamanie"\nand similar hand-woven rugs.', '', None, None], ['5702.10', None, None, '-"Kelem", "Schumacks", "Karamanie" and similar\nhand-woven rugs', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.20', None, None, '-Floor coverings of coconut fibres (coir)', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.3', None, None, '-Other, of pile construction, not made up:', '', None, None], ['5702.31', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.32', None, None, '--Of man-made textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.4', None, None, '-Other, of pile construction, made up:', '', None, None], ['5702.41', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.42', None, None, '--Of man-made textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.50', None, None, '-Other, not of pile construction, not made up', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.9', None, None, '-Other, not of pile construction, made up:', '', None, None], ['5702.91', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.92', None, None, '--Of man-made textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5702.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5703', None, None, 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, tufted,\nwhether or not made up.', '', None, None], ['5703.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5703.20', None, None, '-Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5703.30', None, None, '-Of other man-made textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5703.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5704', None, None, 'Carpets and other textile floor coverings, of felt,\nnot tufted or flocked, whether or not made up.', '', None, None], ['5704.10', None, None, '-Tiles, having a maximum surface area of 0.3 m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5704.20', None, None, '-Tiles, having a maximum surface area exceeding 0.3\nm² but not exceeding 1 m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5704.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5705', None, None, 'Other carpets and other textile floor coverings,\nwhether or not made up.', '', None, None], ['5705.00', None, None, '-Other carpets and other textile floor coverings,\nwhether or not made up.', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 58', None, None, 'Special Woven Fabrics; Tufted Textile Fabrics;\nLace; Tapestries; Trimmings; Embroidery', '', None, None], ['5801', None, None, 'Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics, other than\nfabrics of heading 58.02 or 58.06.', '', None, None], ['5801.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.2', None, None, '-Of cotton:', '', None, None], ['5801.21', None, None, '--Uncut weft pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.22', None, None, '--Cut corduroy', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.23', None, None, '--Other weft pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.26', None, None, '--Chenille fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.27', None, None, '--Warp pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.3', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres:', '', None, None], ['5801.31', None, None, '--Uncut weft pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.32', None, None, '--Cut corduroy', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.33', None, None, '--Other weft pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.36', None, None, '--Chenille fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.37', None, None, '--Warp pile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5801.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5802', None, None, 'Terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics,\nother than narrow fabrics of heading 58.06; tufted\ntextile fabrics, other than products of heading\n57.03.', '', None, None], ['5802.1', None, None, '-Terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics,\nof cotton:', '', None, None], ['5802.11', None, None, '--Unbleached', 'CC', None, None], ['5802.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5802.20', None, None, '-Terry towelling and similar woven terry fabrics, of\nother textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5802.30', None, None, '-Tufted textile fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5803', None, None, 'Gauze, other than narrow fabrics of heading\n58.06.', '', None, None], ['5803.00', None, None, '-Gauze, other than narrow fabrics of heading 58.06.', 'CC', None, None], ['5804', None, None, 'Tulles and other net fabrics, not including woven,\nknitted or crocheted fabrics; lace in the piece, in\nstrips or in motifs, other than fabrics of headings\n60.02 to 60.06.', '', None, None], ['5804.10', None, None, '-Tulles and other net fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5804.2', None, None, '-Mechanically made lace:', '', None, None], ['5804.21', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5804.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5804.30', None, None, '-Hand-made lace', 'CC', None, None], ['5805', None, None, 'Hand-woven tapestries of the type Gobelins,\nFlanders, Aubusson, Beauvais and the like, and\nneedle-worked tapestries (for example, petit point,\ncross stitch), whether or not made up.', '', None, None], ['5805.00', None, None, '-Hand-woven tapestries of the type Gobelins,\nFlanders, Aubusson, Beauvais and the like, and\nneedle-worked tapestries (for example, petit point,\ncross stitch), whether or not made up.', 'CC', None, None], ['5806', None, None, 'Narrow woven fabrics, other than goods of\nheading 58.07; narrow fabrics consisting of warp\nwithout weft assembled by means of an adhesive\n(bolducs).', '', None, None], ['5806.10', None, None, '-Woven pile fabrics (including terry towelling and\nsimilar terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['5806.20', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics, containing by weight 5 % or\nmore of elastomeric yarn or rubber thread', 'CC', None, None], ['5806.3', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics:', '', None, None], ['5806.31', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['5806.32', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5806.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5806.40', None, None, '-Fabrics consisting of warp without weft assembled\nby means of an adhesive (bolducs)', 'CC', None, None], ['5807', None, None, 'Labels, badges and similar articles of textile\nmaterials, in the piece, in strips or cut to shape or\nsize, not embroidered.', '', None, None], ['5807.10', None, None, '-Woven', 'CC', None, None], ['5807.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5808', None, None, 'Braids in the piece; ornamental trimmings in the\npiece, without embroidery, other than knitted or\ncrocheted; tassels, pompons and similar articles.', '', None, None], ['5808.10', None, None, '-Braids in the piece', 'CC', None, None], ['5808.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5809', None, None, 'Woven fabrics of metal thread and woven fabrics\nof metallised yarn of heading 56.05, of a kind used\nin apparel, as furnishing fabrics or for similar\npurposes, not elsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['5809.00', None, None, '-Woven fabrics of metal thread and woven fabrics of\nmetallised yarn of heading 56.05, of a kind used in\napparel, as furnishing fabrics or for similar purposes,\nnot elsewhere specified or included.', 'CC', None, None], ['5810', None, None, 'Embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs.', '', None, None], ['5810.10', None, None, '-Embroidery without visible ground', 'CC', None, None], ['5810.9', None, None, '-Other embroidery:', '', None, None], ['5810.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['5810.92', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['5810.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['5811', None, None, 'Quilted textile products in the piece, composed of\none or more layers of textile materials assembled\nwith padding by stitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10.', '', None, None], ['5811.00', None, None, '-Quilted textile products in the piece, composed of\none or more layers of textile materials assembled\nwith padding by stitching or otherwise, other than\nembroidery of heading 58.10.', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 59', None, None, 'Impregnated, Coated, Covered or Laminated\nTextile Fabrics; Textile Articles of a Kind Suitable\nfor Industrial Use', '', None, None], ['5901', None, None, 'Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous\nsubstances, of a kind used for the outer covers of\nbooks or the like; tracing cloth; prepared painting\ncanvas; buckram and similar stiffened textile\nfabrics of a kind used for hat foundations.', '', None, None], ['5901.10', None, None, '-Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous\nsubstances, of a kind used for the outer covers of\nbooks or the like', 'CC', None, None], ['5901.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5902', None, None, 'Tyre cord fabric of high tenacity yarn of nylon or\nother polyamides, polyesters or viscose rayon.', '', None, None], ['5902.10', None, None, '-Of nylon or other polyamides', 'CC', None, None], ['5902.20', None, None, '-Of polyesters', 'CC', None, None], ['5902.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5903', None, None, 'Textile fabrics impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated with plastics, other than those of\nheading 59.02.', '', None, None], ['5903.10', None, None, '-With poly (vinyl chloride)', 'CC', None, None], ['5903.20', None, None, '-With polyurethane', 'CC', None, None], ['5903.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5904', None, None, 'Linoleum, whether or not cut to shape; floor\ncoverings consisting of a coating or covering\napplied on a textile backing, whether or not cut to\nshape.', '', None, None], ['5904.10', None, None, '-Linoleum', 'CC', None, None], ['5904.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5905', None, None, 'Textile wall coverings.', '', None, None], ['5905.00', None, None, '-Textile wall coverings.', 'CC', None, None], ['5906', None, None, 'Rubberised textile fabrics, other than those of\nheading 59.02.', '', None, None], ['5906.10', None, None, '-Adhesive tape of a width not exceeding 20 cm', 'CC', None, None], ['5906.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['5906.91', None, None, '--Knitted or crocheted', 'CC', None, None], ['5906.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['5907', None, None, 'Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated, coated or\ncovered; painted canvas being theatrical scenery,\nstudio back-cloths or the like.', '', None, None], ['5907.00', None, None, '-Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated, coated or\ncovered; painted canvas being theatrical scenery,\nstudio back-cloths or the like.', 'CC', None, None], ['5908', None, None, 'Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted, for lamps,\nstoves, lighters, candles or the like; incandescent\ngas mantles and tubular knitted gas mantle fabric\ntherefor, whether or not impregnated.', '', None, None], ['5908.00', None, None, '-Textile wicks, woven, plaited or knitted, for lamps,\nstoves, lighters, candles or the like; incandescent gas\nmantles and tubular knitted gas mantle fabric\ntherefor, whether or not impregnated.', 'CC', None, None], ['5909', None, None, 'Textile hosepiping and similar textile tubing, with\nor without lining, armour or accessories of other\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['5909.00', None, None, '-Textile hosepiping and similar textile tubing, with or\nwithout lining, armour or accessories of other\nmaterials.', 'CC', None, None], ['5910', None, None, 'Transmission or conveyor belts or belting, of\ntextile material, whether or not impregnated,\ncoated, covered or laminated with plastics, or\nreinforced with metal or other material.', '', None, None], ['5910.00', None, None, '-Transmission or conveyor belts or belting, of textile\nmaterial, whether or not impregnated, coated,\ncovered or laminated with plastics, or reinforced with\nmetal or other material.', 'CC', None, None], ['5911', None, None, 'Textile products and articles, for technical uses,\nspecified in Note 7 to this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['5911.10', None, None, '-Textile fabrics, felt and felt-lined woven fabrics,\ncoated, covered or laminated with rubber, leather or\nother material, of a kind used for card clothing, and\nsimilar fabrics of a kind used for other technical\npurposes, including narrow fabrics made of velvet\nimpregnated with rubber, for covering weaving\nspindles (weaving beams)', 'CC', None, None], ['5911.20', None, None, '-Bolting cloth, whether or not made up', 'CC', None, None], ['5911.3', None, None, '-Textile fabrics and felts, endless or fitted with\nlinking devices, of a kind used in paper-making or\nsimilar machines (for example, for pulp or\nasbestos-cement):', '', None, None], ['5911.31', None, None, '--Weighing less than 650 g/m²', 'CC', None, None], ['5911.32', None, None, '--Weighing 650 g/m² or more', 'CC', None, None], ['5911.40', None, None, '-Straining cloth of a kind used in oil presses or the\nlike, including that of human hair', 'CC', None, None], ['5911.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 60', None, None, 'Knitted or Crocheted Fabrics', '', None, None], ['6001', None, None, 'Pile fabrics, including "long pile" fabrics and\nterry fabrics, knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6001.10', None, None, '-"Long pile" fabrics', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.2', None, None, '-Looped pile fabrics:', '', None, None], ['6001.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6001.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.92', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6001.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6002', None, None, 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width not\nexceeding 30 cm, containing by weight 5 % or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'more of elastomeric yarn or rubber thread, other\nthan those of heading 60.01.', '', None, None], ['6002.40', None, None, '-Containing by weight 5 % or more of elastomeric\nyarn but not containing rubber thread', 'CC', None, None], ['6002.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6003', None, None, 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width not\nexceeding 30 cm, other than those of heading 60.01\nor 60.02.', '', None, None], ['6003.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6003.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6003.30', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6003.40', None, None, '-Of artificial fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6003.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6004', None, None, 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics of a width exceeding\n30 cm, containing by weight 5 % or more of\nelastomeric yarn or rubber thread, other than\nthose of heading 60.01.', '', None, None], ['6004.10', None, None, '-Containing by weight 5 % or more of elastomeric\nyarn but not containing rubber thread', 'CC', None, None], ['6004.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6005', None, None, 'Warp knit fabrics (including those made on\ngalloon knitting machines), other than those of\nheadings 60.01 to 60.04.', '', None, None], ['6005.2', None, None, '-Of cotton:', '', None, None], ['6005.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.22', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.23', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.24', None, None, '--Printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.3', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres:', '', None, None], ['6005.35', None, None, '-- Fabrics specified in Subheading Note 1 to this\nChapter', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.36', None, None, '--Other, unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.37', None, None, '--Other, dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.38', None, None, '--Other, of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.39', None, None, '--Other, printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.4', None, None, '-Of artificial fibres:', '', None, None], ['6005.41', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.42', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.43', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.44', None, None, '--Printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6005.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6006', None, None, 'Other knitted or crocheted fabrics.', '', None, None], ['6006.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.2', None, None, '-Of cotton:', '', None, None], ['6006.21', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.22', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.23', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.24', None, None, '--Printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.3', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres:', '', None, None], ['6006.31', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.32', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.33', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.34', None, None, '--Printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.4', None, None, '-Of artificial fibres:', '', None, None], ['6006.41', None, None, '--Unbleached or bleached', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.42', None, None, '--Dyed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.43', None, None, '--Of yarns of different colours', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.44', None, None, '--Printed', 'CC', None, None], ['6006.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 61', None, None, 'Articles of Apparel and Clothing Accessories,\nKnitted or Crocheted', '', None, None], ['6101', None, None, "Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks,\nanoraks (including ski-jackets), wind-cheaters,\nwind-jackets and similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted, other than those of heading 61.03.", '', None, None], ['6101.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6101.30', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6101.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6102', None, None, "Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats, capes,\ncloaks, anoraks (including ski-jackets),\nwind-cheaters, wind- jackets and similar articles,\nknitted or crocheted, other than those of heading\n61.04.", '', None, None], ['6102.10', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6102.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6102.30', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6102.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6103', None, None, "Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers,\ntrousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts (other than swimwear), knitted or\ncrocheted.", '', None, None], ['6103.10', None, None, '-Suits', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.2', None, None, '-Ensembles:', '', None, None], ['6103.22', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.23', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.3', None, None, '-Jackets and blazers:', '', None, None], ['6103.31', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.32', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.33', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.4', None, None, '-Trousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts:', '', None, None], ['6103.41', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.42', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.43', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6103.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104', None, None, "Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets,\nblazers, dresses, skirts, divided skirts, trousers,\nbib and brace overalls, breeches and shorts (other", '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'than swimwear), knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6104.1', None, None, '-Suits:', '', None, None], ['6104.13', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.2', None, None, '-Ensembles:', '', None, None], ['6104.22', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.23', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.3', None, None, '-Jackets and blazers:', '', None, None], ['6104.31', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.32', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.33', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.4', None, None, '-Dresses:', '', None, None], ['6104.41', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.42', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.43', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.44', None, None, '--Of artificial fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.5', None, None, '-Skirts and divided skirts:', '', None, None], ['6104.51', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.52', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.53', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.59', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.6', None, None, '-Trousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts:', '', None, None], ['6104.61', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.62', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.63', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6104.69', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6105', None, None, "Men's or boys' shirts, knitted or crocheted.", '', None, None], ['6105.10', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6105.20', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6105.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6106', None, None, "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and shirt-\nblouses, knitted or crocheted.", '', None, None], ['6106.10', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6106.20', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6106.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6107', None, None, "Men's or boys' underpants, briefs, nightshirts,\npyjamas, bathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles, knitted or crocheted.", '', None, None], ['6107.1', None, None, '-Underpants and briefs:', '', None, None], ['6107.11', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.12', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.2', None, None, '-Nightshirts and pyjamas:', '', None, None], ['6107.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6107.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6107.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6108', None, None, "Women's or girls' slips, petticoats, briefs, panties,\nnightdresses, pyjamas, negligees, bathrobes,\ndressing gowns and similar articles, knitted or\ncrocheted.", '', None, None], ['6108.1', None, None, '-Slips and petticoats:', '', None, None], ['6108.11', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.2', None, None, '-Briefs and panties:', '', None, None], ['6108.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.3', None, None, '-Nightdresses and pyjamas:', '', None, None], ['6108.31', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.32', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6108.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.92', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6108.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6109', None, None, 'T-shirts, singlets and other vests, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', None, None], ['6109.10', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6109.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6110', None, None, 'Jerseys, pullovers, cardigans, waist-coats and\nsimilar articles, knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6110.1', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair:', '', None, None], ['6110.11', None, None, '--Of wool', 'CC', None, None], ['6110.12', None, None, '--Of Kashmir (cashmere) goats', 'CC', None, None], ['6110.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6110.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6110.30', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6110.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6111', None, None, "Babies' garments and clothing accessories, knitted\nor crocheted.", '', None, None], ['6111.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6111.30', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6111.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6112', None, None, 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', None, None], ['6112.1', None, None, '-Track suit:', '', None, None], ['6112.11', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.12', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.20', None, None, '-Ski suits', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.3', None, None, "-Men's or boys' swimwear:", '', None, None], ['6112.31', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.4', None, None, "-Women's or girls' swimwear:", '', None, None], ['6112.41', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6112.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6113', None, None, 'Garments, made up of knitted or crocheted\nfabrics of heading 59.03, 59.06 or 59.07.', '', None, None], ['6113.00', None, None, '-Garments, made up of knitted or crocheted fabrics of\nheading 59.03, 59.06 or 59.07.', 'CC', None, None], ['6114', None, None, 'Other garments, knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6114.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6114.30', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6114.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6115', None, None, 'Panty hose, tights, stockings, socks and other\nhosiery, including graduated compression hosiery\n(for example, stockings for varicose veins) and\nfootwear without applied soles, knitted or\ncrocheted.', '', None, None], ['6115.10', None, None, '-Graduated compression hosiery (for example,\nstockings for varicose veins)', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.2', None, None, '-Other panty hose and tights:', '', None, None], ['6115.21', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres, measuring per single yarn less\nthan 67 decitex', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.22', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres, measuring per single yarn\n67 decitex or more', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.30', None, None, "-Other women's full-length or knee-length hosiery,\nmeasuring per single yarn less than 67 decitex", 'CC', None, None], ['6115.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6115.94', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.95', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.96', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6115.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6116', None, None, 'Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6116.10', None, None, '-Impregnated, coated or covered with plastics or\nrubber', 'CC', None, None], ['6116.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6116.91', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6116.92', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6116.93', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6116.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6117', None, None, 'Other made up clothing accessories, knitted or\ncrocheted; knitted or crocheted parts of garments\nor of clothing accessories.', '', None, None], ['6117.10', None, None, '-Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils and the\nlike', 'CC', None, None], ['6117.80', None, None, '-Other accessories', 'CC', None, None], ['6117.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 62', None, None, 'Articles of Apparel and Clothing Accessories, Not\nKnitted or Crocheted', '', None, None], ['6201', None, None, "Men's or boys' overcoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks,\nanoraks (including ski-jackets), wind-cheaters,", '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'wind-jackets and similar articles, other than those\nof heading 62.03.', '', None, None], ['6201.1', None, None, '-Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and\nsimilar articles:', '', None, None], ['6201.11', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.12', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.13', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6201.91', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.92', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.93', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6201.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6202', None, None, "Women's or girls' overcoats, car-coats, capes,\ncloaks, anoraks (including ski-jackets), wind-\ncheaters, wind-jackets and similar articles, other\nthan those of heading 62.04.", '', None, None], ['6202.1', None, None, '-Overcoats, raincoats, car-coats, capes, cloaks and\nsimilar articles :', '', None, None], ['6202.11', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.12', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.13', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6202.91', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.92', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.93', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6202.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6203', None, None, "Men's or boys' suits, ensembles, jackets, blazers,\ntrousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts (other than swimwear).", '', None, None], ['6203.1', None, None, '-Suits:', '', None, None], ['6203.11', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.12', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.2', None, None, '-Ensembles:', '', None, None], ['6203.22', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.23', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.3', None, None, '-Jackets and blazers:', '', None, None], ['6203.31', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.32', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.33', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.4', None, None, '-Trousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts:', '', None, None], ['6203.41', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.42', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.43', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6203.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204', None, None, "Women's or girls' suits, ensembles, jackets,\nblazers, dresses, skirts, divided skirts, trousers,\nbib and brace overalls, breeches and shorts (other\nthan swimwear).", '', None, None], ['6204.1', None, None, '-Suits:', '', None, None], ['6204.11', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.12', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.13', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.2', None, None, '-Ensembles:', '', None, None], ['6204.21', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.22', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.23', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.3', None, None, '-Jackets and blazers:', '', None, None], ['6204.31', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.32', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.33', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.4', None, None, '-Dresses:', '', None, None], ['6204.41', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.42', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.43', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.44', None, None, '--Of artificial fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.5', None, None, '-Skirts and divided skirts:', '', None, None], ['6204.51', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.52', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.53', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.59', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.6', None, None, '-Trousers, bib and brace overalls, breeches and\nshorts:', '', None, None], ['6204.61', None, None, '--Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.62', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.63', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6204.69', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6205', None, None, "Men's or boys' shirts.", '', None, None], ['6205.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6205.30', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6205.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6206', None, None, "Women's or girls' blouses, shirts and shirt-\nblouses.", '', None, None], ['6206.10', None, None, '-Of silk or silk waste', 'CC', None, None], ['6206.20', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6206.30', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6206.40', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6206.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6207', None, None, "Men's or boys' singlets and other vests,\nunderpants, briefs, nightshirts, pyjamas,\nbathrobes, dressing gowns and similar articles.", '', None, None], ['6207.1', None, None, '-Underpants and briefs:', '', None, None], ['6207.11', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.2', None, None, '-Nightshirts and pyjamas:', '', None, None], ['6207.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6207.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6207.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6208', None, None, "Women's or girls' singlets and other vests, slips,\npetticoats, briefs, panties, nightdresses, pyjamas,\nnégligés, bathrobes, dressing gowns and similar\narticles.", '', None, None], ['6208.1', None, None, '-Slips and petticoats:', '', None, None], ['6208.11', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.2', None, None, '-Nightdresses and pyjamas:', '', None, None], ['6208.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6208.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.92', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6208.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6209', None, None, "Babies' garments and clothing accessories.", '', None, None], ['6209.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6209.30', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6209.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6210', None, None, 'Garments, made up of fabrics of heading 56.02,\n56.03, 59.03, 59.06 or 59.07.', '', None, None], ['6210.10', None, None, '-Of fabrics of heading 56.02 or 56.03', 'CC', None, None], ['6210.20', None, None, '-Other garments, of the type described in subheadings\n6201.11 to 6201.19', 'CC', None, None], ['6210.30', None, None, '-Other garments, of the type described in subheadings\n6202.11 to 6202.19', 'CC', None, None], ['6210.40', None, None, "-Other men's or boys' garments", 'CC', None, None], ['6210.50', None, None, "-Other women's or girls' garments", 'CC', None, None], ['6211', None, None, 'Track suits, ski suits and swimwear; other\ngarments.', '', None, None], ['6211.1', None, None, '-Swimwear:', '', None, None], ['6211.11', None, None, "--Men's or boys'", 'CC', None, None], ['6211.12', None, None, "--Women's or girls'", 'CC', None, None], ['6211.20', None, None, '-Ski suits', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.3', None, None, "-Other garments, men's or boys':", '', None, None], ['6211.32', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.33', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.4', None, None, "-Other garments, women's or girls':", '', None, None], ['6211.42', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.43', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6211.49', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6212', None, None, 'Brassieres, girdles, corsets, braces, suspenders,\ngarters and similar articles and parts thereof,\nwhether or not knitted or crocheted.', '', None, None], ['6212.10', None, None, '-Brassieres', 'CC', None, None], ['6212.20', None, None, '-Girdles and panty-girdles', 'CC', None, None], ['6212.30', None, None, '-Corselettes', 'CC', None, None], ['6212.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6213', None, None, 'Handkerchiefs.', '', None, None], ['6213.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6213.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6214', None, None, 'Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils and the\nlike.', '', None, None], ['6214.10', None, None, '-Of silk or silk waste', 'CC', None, None], ['6214.20', None, None, '-Of wool or fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6214.30', None, None, '-Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6214.40', None, None, '-Of artificial fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6214.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6215', None, None, 'Ties, bow ties and cravats.', '', None, None], ['6215.10', None, None, '-Of silk or silk waste', 'CC', None, None], ['6215.20', None, None, '-Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6215.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6216', None, None, 'Gloves, mittens and mitts.', '', None, None], ['6216.00', None, None, '-Gloves, mittens and mitts.', 'CC', None, None], ['6217', None, None, 'Other made up clothing accessories; parts of\ngarments or of clothing accessories, other than\nthose of heading 62.12.', '', None, None], ['6217.10', None, None, '-Accessories', 'CC', None, None], ['6217.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CC', None, None], ['Chapter 63', None, None, 'Other Made up Textile Articles; Sets; Worn\nClothing and Worn Textile Articles; Rags', '', None, None], ['6301', None, None, 'Blankets and travelling rugs.', '', None, None], ['6301.10', None, None, '-Electric blankets', 'CC', None, None], ['6301.20', None, None, '-Blankets (other than electric blankets) and travelling\nrugs, of wool or of fine animal hair', 'CC', None, None], ['6301.30', None, None, '-Blankets (other than electric blankets) and travelling\nrugs, of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6301.40', None, None, '-Blankets (other than electric blankets) and travelling\nrugs, of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6301.90', None, None, '-Other blankets and travelling rugs', 'CC', None, None], ['6302', None, None, 'Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen\nlinen.', '', None, None], ['6302.10', None, None, '-Bed linen, knitted or crocheted', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.2', None, None, '-Other bed linen, printed:', '', None, None], ['6302.21', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.22', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.3', None, None, '-Other bed linen:', '', None, None], ['6302.31', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.32', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.39', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.40', None, None, '-Table linen, knitted or crocheted', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.5', None, None, '-Other table linen:', '', None, None], ['6302.51', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.53', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.59', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.60', None, None, '-Toilet linen and kitchen linen, of terry towelling or\nsimilar terry fabrics, of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6302.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.93', None, None, '--Of man-made fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6302.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6303', None, None, 'Curtains (including drapes) and interior blinds;\ncurtain or bed valances.', '', None, None], ['6303.1', None, None, '-Knitted or crocheted:', '', None, None], ['6303.12', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6303.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6303.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6303.91', None, None, '--Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6303.92', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6303.99', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6304', None, None, 'Other furnishing articles, excluding those of\nheading 94.04.', '', None, None], ['6304.1', None, None, '-Bedspreads:', '', None, None], ['6304.11', None, None, '--Knitted or crocheted', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.20', None, None, '--Bed nets specified in Subheading Note 1 to this\nChapter', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6304.91', None, None, '--Knitted or crocheted', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.92', None, None, '--Not knitted or crocheted, of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.93', None, None, '--Not knitted or crocheted, of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6304.99', None, None, '--Not knitted or crocheted, of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6305', None, None, 'Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of\ngoods.', '', None, None], ['6305.10', None, None, '-Of jute or of other textile bast fibres of\nheading 53.03', 'CC', None, None], ['6305.20', None, None, '-Of cotton', 'CC', None, None], ['6305.3', None, None, '-Of man-made textile materials:', '', None, None], ['6305.32', None, None, '--Flexible intermediate bulk containers', 'CC', None, None], ['6305.33', None, None, '--Other, of polyethylene or polypropylene strip or the\nlike', 'CC', None, None], ['6305.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6305.90', None, None, '-Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6306', None, None, 'Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds; tents; sails for\nboats, sailboards or landcraft; camping goods.', '', None, None], ['6306.1', None, None, '-Tarpaulins, awnings and sunblinds:', '', None, None], ['6306.12', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC', None, None], ['6306.19', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC', None, None], ['6306.2', None, None, '-Tents:', '', None, None], ['6306.22', None, None, '--Of synthetic fibres', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6306.29', None, None, '--Of other textile materials', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6306.30', None, None, '-Sails', 'CC or RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6306.40', None, None, '-Pneumatic mattresses', 'CC', None, None], ['6306.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6307', None, None, 'Other made up articles, including dress patterns.', '', None, None], ['6307.10', None, None, '-Floor-cloths, dish-cloths, dusters and similar\ncleaning cloths', 'CC', None, None], ['6307.20', None, None, '-Life-jackets and life-belts', 'CC', None, None], ['6307.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['6308', None, None, 'Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn, whether\nor not with accessories, for making up into rugs,\ntapestries, embroidered table cloths or serviettes,\nor similar textile articles, put up in packings for\nretail sale.', '', None, None], ['6308.00', None, None, '-Sets consisting of woven fabric and yarn, whether or\nnot with accessories, for making up into rugs,\ntapestries, embroidered table cloths or serviettes, or\nsimilar textile articles, put up in packings for retail\nsale.', 'CC', None, None], ['6309', None, None, 'Worn clothing and other worn articles.', '', None, None], ['6309.00', None, None, '-Worn clothing and other worn articles.', 'CC', None, None], ['6310', None, None, 'Used or new rags, scrap twine, cordage, rope and\ncables and worn out articles of twine, cordage,\nrope or cables, of textile materials.', '', None, None], ['6310.10', None, None, '-Sorted', 'CC', None, None], ['6310.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CC', None, None], ['SECTION XII -FOOTWEAR, HEADGEAR, UMBRELLAS, SUN-UMBRELLAS,\nWALKING-STICKS, SEAT-STICKS, WHIPS, RIDING-CROPS AND PARTS\nTHEREOF; PREPARED FEATHERS AND ARTICLES MADE THEREWITH;\nARTIFICIAL FLOWERS; ARTICLES OF HUMAN HAIR', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 64', None, None, 'Footwear, Gaiters and the Like; Parts of Such\nArticles', '', None, None], ['6401', None, None, 'Waterproof footwear with outer soles and uppers\nof rubber or of plastics, the uppers of which are\nneither fixed to the sole nor assembled by\nstitching, riveting, nailing, screwing, plugging or\nsimilar processes.', '', None, None], ['6401.10', None, None, '-Footwear incorporating a protective metal toe-cap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6401.9', None, None, '-Other footwear:', '', None, None], ['6401.92', None, None, '--Covering the ankle but not covering the knee', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6401.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6402', None, None, 'Other footwear with outer soles and uppers of\nrubber or plastics.', '', None, None], ['6402.1', None, None, '-Sports footwear:', '', None, None], ['6402.12', None, None, '--Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear and', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'snowboard boots', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6402.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6402.20', None, None, '-Footwear with upper straps or thongs assembled to\nthe sole by means of plugs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6402.9', None, None, '-Other footwear:', '', None, None], ['6402.91', None, None, '--Covering the ankle', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6402.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403', None, None, 'Footwear with outer soles of rubber, plastics,\nleather or composition leather and uppers of\nleather.', '', None, None], ['6403.1', None, None, '-Sports footwear:', '', None, None], ['6403.12', None, None, '--Ski-boots, cross-country ski footwear and\nsnowboard boots', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.20', None, None, '-Footwear with outer soles of leather, and uppers\nwhich consist of leather straps across the instep and\naround the big toe', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.40', None, None, '-Other footwear, incorporating a protective metal toe-\ncap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.5', None, None, '-Other footwear with outer soles of leather:', '', None, None], ['6403.51', None, None, '--Covering the ankle', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.9', None, None, '-Other footwear:', '', None, None], ['6403.91', None, None, '--Covering the ankle', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6403.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6404', None, None, 'Footwear with outer soles of rubber, plastics,\nleather or composition leather and uppers of\ntextile materials.', '', None, None], ['6404.1', None, None, '-Footwear with outer soles of rubber or plastics:', '', None, None], ['6404.11', None, None, '--Sports footwear; tennis shoes, basketball shoes,\ngym shoes, training shoes and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6404.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6404.20', None, None, '-Footwear with outer soles of leather or composition\nleather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6405', None, None, 'Other footwear.', '', None, None], ['6405.10', None, None, '-With uppers of leather or composition leather', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6405.20', None, None, '-With uppers of textile materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6405.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6406', None, None, 'Parts of footwear (including uppers whether or\nnot attached to soles other than outer soles);\nremovable in-soles, heel cushions and similar\narticles; gaiters, leggings and similar articles, and\nparts thereof.', '', None, None], ['6406.10', None, None, '-Uppers and parts thereof, other than stiffeners', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6406.20', None, None, '-Outer soles and heels, of rubber or plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6406.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 65', None, None, 'Headgear and Parts Thereof', '', None, None], ['6501', None, None, 'Hat-forms, hat bodies and hoods of felt, neither\nblocked to shape nor with made brims; plateaux\nand manchons (including slit manchons), of felt.', '', None, None], ['6501.00', None, None, '-Hat-forms, hat bodies and hoods of felt, neither\nblocked to shape nor with made brims; plateaux and\nmanchons (including slit manchons), of felt.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6502', None, None, 'Hat-shapes, plaited or made by assembling strips\nof any material, neither blocked to shape, nor with\nmade brims, nor lined, nor trimmed.', '', None, None], ['6502.00', None, None, '-Hat-shapes, plaited or made by assembling strips of\nany material, neither blocked to shape, nor with made\nbrims, nor lined, nor trimmed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6504', None, None, 'Hats and other headgear, plaited or made by\nassembling strips of any material, whether or not\nlined or trimmed.', '', None, None], ['6504.00', None, None, '-Hats and other headgear, plaited or made by\nassembling strips of any material, whether or not\nlined or trimmed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6505', None, None, 'Hats and other headgear, knitted or crocheted, or\nmade up from lace, felt or other textile fabric, in\nthe piece (but not in strips), whether or not lined\nor trimmed; hair-nets of any material, whether or\nnot lined or trimmed.', '', None, None], ['6505.00', None, None, '-Hats and other headgear, knitted or crocheted, or\nmade up from lace, felt or other textile fabric, in the\npiece (but not in strips), whether or not lined or\ntrimmed; hair-nets of any material, whether or not\nlined or trimmed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6506', None, None, 'Other headgear, whether or not lined or trimmed.', '', None, None], ['6506.10', None, None, '-Safety headgear', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6506.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6506.91', None, None, '--Of rubber or of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6506.99', None, None, '--Of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6507', None, None, 'Head-bands, linings, covers, hat foundations, hat\nframes, peaks and chinstraps, for headgear.', '', None, None], ['6507.00', None, None, '-Head-bands, linings, covers, hat foundations, hat', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'frames, peaks and chinstraps, for headgear.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 66', None, None, 'Umbrellas, Sun Umbrellas, Walking-sticks, Seat-\nsticks, Whips, Riding-crops and Parts Thereof', '', None, None], ['6601', None, None, 'Umbrellas and sun umbrellas (including walking-\nstick umbrellas, garden umbrellas and similar\numbrellas).', '', None, None], ['6601.10', None, None, '-Garden or similar umbrellas', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6601.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6601.91', None, None, '--Having a telescopic shaft', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6601.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6602', None, None, 'Walking-sticks, seat-sticks, whips, riding-crops\nand the like.', '', None, None], ['6602.00', None, None, '-Walking-sticks, seat-sticks, whips, riding-crops and\nthe like.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6603', None, None, 'Parts, trimmings and accessories of articles of\nheading 66.01 or 66.02.', '', None, None], ['6603.20', None, None, '-Umbrella frames, including frames mounted on\nshafts (sticks)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6603.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 67', None, None, 'Prepared Feathers and Down and Articles Made\nof Feathers or of Down; Artificial Flowers;\nArticles of Human Hair', '', None, None], ['6701', None, None, 'Skins and other parts of birds with their feathers\nor down, feathers, parts of feathers, down and\narticles thereof (other than goods of heading 05.05\nand worked quills and scapes).', '', None, None], ['6701.00', None, None, '-Skins and other parts of birds with their feathers or\ndown, feathers, parts of feathers, down and articles\nthereof (other than goods of heading 05.05 and\nworked quills and scapes).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6702', None, None, 'Artificial flowers, foliage and fruit and parts\nthereof; articles made of artificial flowers, foliage\nor fruit.', '', None, None], ['6702.10', None, None, '-Of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6702.90', None, None, '-Of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6703', None, None, 'Human hair, dressed, thinned, bleached or\notherwise worked; wool or other animal hair or\nother textile materials, prepared for use in making\nwigs or the like.', '', None, None], ['6703.00', None, None, '-Human hair, dressed, thinned, bleached or otherwise\nworked; wool or other animal hair or other textile\nmaterials, prepared for use in making wigs or the\nlike.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6704', None, None, 'Wigs, false beards, eyebrows and eyelashes,\nswitches and the like, of human or animal hair or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'of textile materials; articles of human hair not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['6704.1', None, None, '-Of synthetic textile materials:', '', None, None], ['6704.11', None, None, '--Complete wigs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6704.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6704.20', None, None, '-Of human hair', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6704.90', None, None, '-Of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XIII -ARTICLES OF STONE, PLASTER, CEMENT, ASBESTOS, MICA\nOR SIMILAR MATERIALS; CERAMIC PRODUCTS; GLASS AND GLASSWARE', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 68', None, None, 'Articles of Stone, Plaster, Cement, Asbestos, Mica\nor Similar Materials', '', None, None], ['6801', None, None, 'Setts, curbstones and flagstones, of natural stone\n(except slate).', '', None, None], ['6801.00', None, None, '-Setts, curbstones and flagstones, of natural stone\n(except slate).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802', None, None, 'Worked monumental or building stone (except\nslate) and articles thereof, other than goods of\nheading 68.01; mosaic cubes and the like, of\nnatural stone (including slate), whether or not on\na backing; artificially coloured granules,\nchippings and powder, of natural stone (including\nslate).', '', None, None], ['6802.10', None, None, '-Tiles, cubes and similar articles, whether or not\nrectangular (including square), the largest surface\narea of which is capable of being enclosed in a square\nthe side of which is less than 7 cm; artificially\ncoloured granules, chippings and powder', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.2', None, None, '-Other monumental or building stone and articles\nthereof, simply cut or sawn, with a flat or even\nsurface:', '', None, None], ['6802.21', None, None, '--Marble, travertine and alabaster', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.23', None, None, '--Granite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.29', None, None, '--Other stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6802.91', None, None, '--Marble, travertine and alabaster', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.92', None, None, '--Other calcareous stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.93', None, None, '--Granite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6802.99', None, None, '--Other stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6803', None, None, 'Worked slate and articles of slate or of\nagglomerated slate.', '', None, None], ['6803.00', None, None, '-Worked slate and articles of slate or of agglomerated\nslate.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6804', None, None, 'Millstones, grindstones, grinding wheels and the\nlike, without frameworks, for grinding,\nsharpening, polishing, trueing or cutting, hand\nsharpening or polishing stones, and parts thereof,\nof natural stone, of agglomerated natural or\nartificial abrasives, or of ceramics, with or without\nparts of other materials.', '', None, None], ['6804.10', None, None, '-Millstones and grindstones for milling, grinding or\npulping', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6804.2', None, None, '-Other millstones, grindstones, grinding wheels\nand the like :', '', None, None], ['6804.21', None, None, '--Of agglomerated synthetic or natural diamond', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6804.22', None, None, '--Of other agglomerated abrasives or of ceramics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6804.23', None, None, '--Of natural stone', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6804.30', None, None, '-Hand sharpening or polishing stones', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6805', None, None, 'Natural or artificial abrasive powder or grain, on\na base of textile material, of paper, of paperboard\nor of other materials, whether or not cut to shape\nor sewn or otherwise made up.', '', None, None], ['6805.10', None, None, '-On a base of woven textile fabric only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6805.20', None, None, '-On a base of paper or paperboard only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6805.30', None, None, '-On a base of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6806', None, None, 'Slag wool, rock wool and similar mineral wools;\nexfoliated vermiculite, expanded clays, foamed\nslag and similar expanded mineral materials;\nmixtures and articles of heat-insulating, sound-\ninsulating or sound-absorbing mineral materials,\nother than those of heading 68.11 or 68.12 or of\nChapter 69.', '', None, None], ['6806.10', None, None, '-Slag wool, rock wool and similar mineral wools\n(including intermixtures thereof), in bulk, sheets or\nrolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6806.20', None, None, '-Exfoliated vermiculite, expanded clays, foamed slag\nand similar expanded mineral materials (including\nintermixtures thereof)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6806.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6807', None, None, 'Articles of asphalt or of similar material (for\nexample, petroleum bitumen or coal tar pitch).', '', None, None], ['6807.10', None, None, '-In rolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6807.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6808', None, None, 'Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and similar articles of\nvegetable fibre, of straw or of shavings, chips,\nparticles, sawdust or other waste, of wood,\nagglomerated with cement, plaster or other\nmineral binders.', '', None, None], ['6808.00', None, None, '-Panels, boards, tiles, blocks and similar articles of\nvegetable fibre, of straw or of shavings, chips,\nparticles, sawdust or other waste, of wood,\nagglomerated with cement, plaster or other mineral\nbinders.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6809', None, None, 'Articles of plaster or of compositions based on\nplaster.', '', None, None], ['6809.1', None, None, '-Boards, sheets, panels, tiles and similar articles,\nnot ornamented:', '', None, None], ['6809.11', None, None, '--Faced or reinforced with paper or paperboard only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6809.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6809.90', None, None, '-Other articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6810', None, None, 'Articles of cement, of concrete or of artificial\nstone, whether or not reinforced.', '', None, None], ['6810.1', None, None, '-Tiles, flagstones, bricks and similar articles:', '', None, None], ['6810.11', None, None, '--Building blocks and bricks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6810.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6810.9', None, None, '-Other articles:', '', None, None], ['6810.91', None, None, '--Prefabricated structural components for building or\ncivil engineering', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6810.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6811', None, None, 'Articles of asbestos-cement, of cellulose fibre-\ncement or the like.', '', None, None], ['6811.40', None, None, '-Containing asbestos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6811.8', None, None, '-Not containing asbestos:', '', None, None], ['6811.81', None, None, '--Corrugated sheets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6811.82', None, None, '--Other sheets, panels, tiles and similar articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6811.89', None, None, '--Other articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6812', None, None, 'Fabricated asbestos fibres; mixtures with a basis\nof asbestos or with a basis of asbestos and\nmagnesium carbonate; articles of such mixtures or\nof asbestos (for example, thread, woven fabric,\nclothing, headgear, footwear, gaskets), whether or\nnot reinforced, other than goods of heading 68.11\nor 68.13.', '', None, None], ['6812.80', None, None, '-Of crocidolite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6812.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['6812.91', None, None, '--Clothing, clothing accessories, footwear and\nheadgear', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6812.92', None, None, '--Paper, millboard and felt', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6812.93', None, None, '--Compressed asbestos fibre jointing, in sheets or\nrolls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6812.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6813', None, None, 'Friction material and articles thereof (for\nexample, sheets, rolls, strips, segments, discs,\nwashers, pads), not mounted, for brakes, for\nclutches or the like, with a basis of asbestos, of\nother mineral substances or of cellulose, whether\nor not combined with textile or other materials.', '', None, None], ['6813.20', None, None, '-Containing asbestos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6813.8', None, None, '-Not containing asbestos:', '', None, None], ['6813.81', None, None, '--Brake linings and pads', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6813.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6814', None, None, 'Worked mica and articles of mica, including\nagglomerated or reconstituted mica, whether or\nnot on a support of paper, paperboard or other\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['6814.10', None, None, '-Plates, sheets and strips of agglomerated or\nreconstituted mica, whether or not on a support', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6814.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6815', None, None, 'Articles of stone or of other mineral substances\n(including carbon fibres, articles of carbon fibres\nand articles of peat), not elsewhere specified or\nincluded.', '', None, None], ['6815.10', None, None, '-Non-electrical articles of graphite or other carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6815.20', None, None, '-Articles of peat', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6815.9', None, None, '-Other articles:', '', None, None], ['6815.91', None, None, '--Containing magnesite, dolomite or chromite', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6815.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 69', None, None, 'Ceramic Products', '', None, None], ['6901', None, None, 'Bricks, blocks, tiles and other ceramic goods of\nsiliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr,\ntripolite or diatomite) or of similar siliceous\nearths.', '', None, None], ['6901.00', None, None, '-Bricks, blocks, tiles and other ceramic goods of', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'siliceous fossil meals (for example, kieselguhr,\ntripolite or diatomite) or of similar siliceous earths.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6902', None, None, 'Refractory bricks, blocks, tiles and similar\nrefractory ceramic constructional goods, other\nthan those of siliceous fossil meals or similar\nsiliceous earths.', '', None, None], ['6902.10', None, None, '-Containing by weight, singly or together, more than\n50 % of the elements Mg, Ca or Cr, expressed as\nMgO, CaO or Cr O\n2 3', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6902.20', None, None, '-Containing by weight more than 50 % of alumina\n(Al O ), of silica (SiO ) or of a mixture or compound\n2 3 2\nof these products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6902.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6903', None, None, 'Other refractory ceramic goods (for example,\nretorts, crucibles, muffles, nozzles, plugs,\nsupports, cupels, tubes, pipes, sheaths and rods),\nother than those of siliceous fossil meals or of\nsimilar siliceous earths.', '', None, None], ['6903.10', None, None, '-Containing by weight more than 50 % of graphite or\nother carbon or of a mixture of these products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6903.20', None, None, '-Containing by weight more than 50 % of alumina\n(Al O ) or of a mixture or compound of alumina and\n2 3\nof silica (SiO )\n2', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6903.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6904', None, None, 'Ceramic building bricks, flooring blocks, support\nor filler tiles and the like.', '', None, None], ['6904.10', None, None, '-Building bricks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6904.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6905', None, None, 'Roofing tiles, chimney-pots, cowls, chimney liners,\narchitectural ornaments and other ceramic\nconstructional goods.', '', None, None], ['6905.10', None, None, '-Roofing tiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6905.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6906', None, None, 'Ceramic pipes, conduits, guttering and pipe\nfittings.', '', None, None], ['6906.00', None, None, '-Ceramic pipes, conduits, guttering and pipe fittings.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6907', None, None, 'Ceramic flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles;\nceramic mosaic cubes and the like, whether or not\non a backing; finishing ceramics.', '', None, None], ['6907.2', None, None, '-Flags and paving, hearth or wall tiles, other than\nthose of subheadings 6907.30 and 6907.40 :', '', None, None], ['6907.21', None, None, '--Of a water absorption coefficient by weight not\nexceeding 0.5 %', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6907.22', None, None, '--Of a water absorption coefficient by weight', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'exceeding 0.5 % but not exceeding 10 %', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6907.23', None, None, '--Of a water absorption coefficient by weight\nexceeding 10 %', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6907.30', None, None, '-Mosaic cubes and the like, other than those of\nsubheading 6907.40', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6907.40', None, None, '-Finishing ceramics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6909', None, None, 'Ceramic wares for laboratory, chemical or other\ntechnical uses; ceramic troughs, tubs and similar\nreceptacles of a kind used in agriculture; ceramic\npots, jars and similar articles of a kind used for\nthe conveyance or packing of goods.', '', None, None], ['6909.1', None, None, '-Ceramic wares for laboratory, chemical or other\ntechnical uses:', '', None, None], ['6909.11', None, None, '--Of porcelain or china', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6909.12', None, None, '--Articles having a hardness equivalent to 9 or more\non the Mohs scale', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6909.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6909.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6910', None, None, 'Ceramic sinks, wash basins, wash basin pedestals,\nbaths, bidets, water closet pans, flushing cisterns,\nurinals and similar sanitary fixtures.', '', None, None], ['6910.10', None, None, '-Of porcelain or china', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6910.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6911', None, None, 'Tableware, kitchenware, other household articles\nand toilet articles, of porcelain or china.', '', None, None], ['6911.10', None, None, '-Tableware and kitchenware', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6911.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6912', None, None, 'Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household\narticles and toilet articles, other than of porcelain\nor china.', '', None, None], ['6912.00', None, None, '-Ceramic tableware, kitchenware, other household\narticles and toilet articles, other than of porcelain or\nchina.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6913', None, None, 'Statuettes and other ornamental ceramic articles.', '', None, None], ['6913.10', None, None, '-Of porcelain or china', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6913.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6914', None, None, 'Other ceramic articles.', '', None, None], ['6914.10', None, None, '-Of porcelain or china', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['6914.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 70', None, None, 'Glass and Glassware', '', None, None], ['7001', None, None, 'Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass; glass in\nthe mass.', '', None, None], ['7001.00', None, None, '-Cullet and other waste and scrap of glass; glass in\nthe mass.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7002', None, None, 'Glass in balls (other than microspheres of heading\n70.18), rods or tubes, unworked.', '', None, None], ['7002.10', None, None, '-Balls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7002.20', None, None, '-Rods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7002.3', None, None, '-Tubes:', '', None, None], ['7002.31', None, None, '--Of fused quartz or other fused silica', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7002.32', None, None, '--Of other glass having a linear coefficient of\nexpansion not exceeding 5 x 10-6 per Kelvin within a\ntemperature range of 0 °C to 300 °C', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7002.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7003', None, None, 'Cast glass and rolled glass, in sheets or profiles,\nwhether or not having an absorbent, reflecting or\nnon-reflecting layer, but not otherwise worked.', '', None, None], ['7003.1', None, None, '-Non-wired sheets:', '', None, None], ['7003.12', None, None, '--Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted),\nopacified, flashed or having an absorbent, reflecting\nor non-reflecting layer', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7003.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7003.20', None, None, '-Wired sheets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7003.30', None, None, '-Profiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7004', None, None, 'Drawn glass and blown glass, in sheets, whether or\nnot having an absorbent, reflecting or non-\nreflecting layer, but not otherwise worked.', '', None, None], ['7004.20', None, None, '-Glass, coloured throughout the mass (body tinted),\nopacified, flashed or having an absorbent, reflecting\nor non-reflecting layer', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7004.90', None, None, '-Other glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7005', None, None, 'Float glass and surface ground or polished glass,\nin sheets, whether or not having an absorbent,\nreflecting or non-reflecting layer, but not\notherwise worked.', '', None, None], ['7005.10', None, None, '-Non-wired glass, having an absorbent, reflecting or\nnon-reflecting layer', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7005.2', None, None, '-Other non-wired glass :', '', None, None], ['7005.21', None, None, '--Coloured throughout the mass (body tinted),\nopacified, flashed or merely surface ground', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7005.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7005.30', None, None, '-Wired glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7006', None, None, 'Glass of heading 70.03, 70.04 or 70.05, bent, edge-\nworked, engraved, drilled, enamelled or otherwise\nworked, but not framed or fitted with other\nmaterials.', '', None, None], ['7006.00', None, None, '-Glass of heading 70.03, 70.04 or 70.05, bent, edge-\nworked, engraved, drilled, enamelled or otherwise\nworked, but not framed or fitted with other materials.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7007', None, None, 'Safety glass, consisting of toughened (tempered)\nor laminated glass.', '', None, None], ['7007.1', None, None, '-Toughened (tempered) safety glass:', '', None, None], ['7007.11', None, None, '--Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in\nvehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or vessels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7007.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7007.2', None, None, '-Laminated safety glass:', '', None, None], ['7007.21', None, None, '--Of size and shape suitable for incorporation in\nvehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or vessels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7007.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7008', None, None, 'Multiple-walled insulating units of glass.', '', None, None], ['7008.00', None, None, '-Multiple-walled insulating units of glass.', 'CTH ex 7003-7009\nor RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7009', None, None, 'Glass mirrors, whether or not framed, including\nrear-view mirrors.', '', None, None], ['7009.10', None, None, '-Rear-view mirrors for vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7009.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7009.91', None, None, '--Unframed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7009.92', None, None, '--Framed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7010', None, None, 'Carboys, bottles, flasks, jars, pots, phials,\nampoules and other containers, of glass, of a kind\nused for the conveyance or packing of goods;\npreserving jars of glass; stoppers, lids and other\nclosures, of glass.', '', None, None], ['7010.10', None, None, '-Ampoules', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7010.20', None, None, '-Stoppers, lids and other closures', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7010.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7011', None, None, 'Glass envelopes (including bulbs and tubes), open,\nand glass parts thereof, without fittings, for\nelectric lamps, cathode-ray tubes or the like.', '', None, None], ['7011.10', None, None, '-For electric lighting', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7011.20', None, None, '-For cathode-ray tubes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7011.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013', None, None, 'Glassware of a kind used for table, kitchen, toilet,\noffice, indoor decoration or similar purposes\n(other than that of heading 70.10 or 70.18).', '', None, None], ['7013.10', None, None, '-Of glass-ceramics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.2', None, None, '-Stemware drinking glasses, other than of glass-\nceramics:', '', None, None], ['7013.22', None, None, '--Of lead crystal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.28', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.3', None, None, '-Other drinking glasses, other than of glass\nceramics:', '', None, None], ['7013.33', None, None, '--Of lead crystal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.37', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.4', None, None, '-Glassware of a kind used for table (other than\ndrinking glasses) or kitchen purposes other than\nof glass-ceramics:', '', None, None], ['7013.41', None, None, '--Of lead crystal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.42', None, None, '--Of glass having a linear coefficient of expansion not\nexceeding 5 x 10-6 per Kelvin within a temperature\nrange of 0 °C to 300 °C', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.9', None, None, '-Other glassware:', '', None, None], ['7013.91', None, None, '--Of lead crystal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7013.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7014', None, None, 'Signalling glassware and optical elements of glass\n(other than those of heading 70.15), not optically\nworked.', '', None, None], ['7014.00', None, None, '-Signalling glassware and optical elements of glass\n(other than those of heading 70.15), not optically\nworked.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7015', None, None, 'Clock or watch glasses and similar glasses, glasses\nfor non-corrective or corrective spectacles,\ncurved, bent, hollowed or the like, not optically\nworked; hollow glass spheres and their segments,\nfor the manufacture of such glasses.', '', None, None], ['7015.10', None, None, '-Glasses for corrective spectacles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7015.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7016', None, None, 'Paving blocks, slabs, bricks, squares, tiles and\nother articles of pressed or moulded glass,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'whether or not wired, of a kind used for building\nor construction purposes; glass cubes and other\nglass smallwares, whether or not on a backing, for\nmosaics or similar decorative purposes; leaded\nlights and the like; multicellular or foam glass in\nblocks, panels, plates, shells or similar forms.', '', None, None], ['7016.10', None, None, '-Glass cubes and other glass smallwares, whether or\nnot on a backing, for mosaics or similar decorative\npurposes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7016.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7017', None, None, 'Laboratory, hygienic or pharmaceutical\nglassware, whether or not graduated or\ncalibrated.', '', None, None], ['7017.10', None, None, '-Of fused quartz or other fused silica', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7017.20', None, None, '-Of other glass having a linear coefficient of\nexpansion not exceeding 5 x 10-6 per Kelvin within a\ntemperature range of 0 °C to 300 °C', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7017.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7018', None, None, 'Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation precious\nor semi-precious stones and similar glass\nsmallwares, and articles thereof other than\nimitation jewellery; glass eyes other than\nprosthetic articles; statuettes and other ornaments\nof lamp-worked glass, other than imitation\njewellery; glass microspheres not exceeding 1 mm\nin diameter.', '', None, None], ['7018.10', None, None, '-Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation precious or\nsemi-precious stones and similar glass smallwares', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7018.20', None, None, '-Glass microspheres not exceeding 1 mm in diameter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7018.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019', None, None, 'Glass fibres (including glass wool) and articles\nthereof (for example, yarn, woven fabrics).', '', None, None], ['7019.1', None, None, '-Slivers, rovings, yarn and chopped strands:', '', None, None], ['7019.11', None, None, '--Chopped strands, of a length of not more than 50\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.12', None, None, '--Rovings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.3', None, None, '-Thin sheets (voiles), webs, mats, mattresses,\nboards and similar nonwoven products:', '', None, None], ['7019.31', None, None, '--Mats', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.32', None, None, '--Thin sheets (voiles)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.40', None, None, '-Woven fabrics of rovings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.5', None, None, '-Other woven fabrics:', '', None, None], ['7019.51', None, None, '--Of a width not exceeding 30 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.52', None, None, '--Of a width exceeding 30 cm, plain weave, weighing\nless than 250 g/m2, of filaments measuring per single\nyarn not more than 136 tex', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7019.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7020', None, None, 'Other articles of glass.', '', None, None], ['7020.00', None, None, '-Other articles of glass.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XIV -NATURAL OR CULTURED PEARLS, PRECIOUS OR SEMI-\nPRECIOUS STONES, PRECIOUS METALS, METALS CLAD WITH PRECIOUS\nMETAL, AND ARTICLES THEREOF; IMITATION JEWELLERY; COIN', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 71', None, None, 'Natural or Cultured Pearls, Precious or Semi-\nprecious Stones, Precious Metals, Metals Clad\nwith Precious Metal, and Articles Thereof;\nImitation Jewellery; Coin', '', None, None], ['7101', None, None, 'Pearls, natural or cultured, whether or not\nworked or graded but not strung, mounted or set;\npearls, natural or cultured, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', '', None, None], ['7101.10', None, None, '-Natural pearls', 'CC', None, None], ['7101.2', None, None, '-Cultured pearls:', '', None, None], ['7101.21', None, None, '--Unworked', 'CC', None, None], ['7101.22', None, None, '--Worked', 'CC', None, None], ['7102', None, None, 'Diamonds, whether or not worked, but not\nmounted or set.', '', None, None], ['7102.10', None, None, '-Unsorted', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7102.2', None, None, '-Industrial:', '', None, None], ['7102.21', None, None, '--Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or bruted', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7102.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7102.3', None, None, '-Non-industrial:', '', None, None], ['7102.31', None, None, '--Unworked or simply sawn, cleaved or bruted', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7102.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7103', None, None, 'Precious stones (other than diamonds) and semi-\nprecious stones, whether or not worked or graded\nbut not strung, mounted or set; ungraded precious\nstones (other than diamonds) and semi-precious\nstones, temporarily strung for convenience of\ntransport.', '', None, None], ['7103.10', None, None, '-Unworked or simply sawn or roughly shaped', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7103.9', None, None, '-Otherwise worked:', '', None, None], ['7103.91', None, None, '--Rubies, sapphires and emeralds', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7103.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7104', None, None, 'Synthetic or reconstructed precious or semi-\nprecious stones, whether or not worked or graded\nbut not strung, mounted or set; ungraded\nsynthetic or reconstructed precious or semi-\nprecious stones, temporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport.', '', None, None], ['7104.10', None, None, '-Piezo-electric quartz', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7104.20', None, None, '-Other, unworked or simply sawn or roughly shaped', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7104.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7105', None, None, 'Dust and powder of natural or synthetic precious\nor semi-precious stones.', '', None, None], ['7105.10', None, None, '-Of diamonds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7105.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7106', None, None, 'Silver (including silver plated with gold or\nplatinum), unwrought or in semi-manufactured\nforms, or in powder form.', '', None, None], ['7106.10', None, None, '-Powder', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7106.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7106.91', None, None, '--Unwrought', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7106.92', None, None, '--Semi-manufactured', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7107', None, None, 'Base metals clad with silver, not further worked\nthan semi-manufactured.', '', None, None], ['7107.00', None, None, '-Base metals clad with silver, not further worked than\nsemi-manufactured.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7108', None, None, 'Gold (including gold plated with platinum)\nunwrought or in semi-manufactured forms, or in\npowder form.', '', None, None], ['7108.1', None, None, '-Non-monetary:', '', None, None], ['7108.11', None, None, '--Powder', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7108.12', None, None, '--Other unwrought forms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7108.13', None, None, '--Other semi-manufactured forms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7108.20', None, None, '-Monetary', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7109', None, None, 'Base metals or silver, clad with gold, not further\nworked than semi-manufactured.', '', None, None], ['7109.00', None, None, '-Base metals or silver, clad with gold, not further\nworked than semi-manufactured.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110', None, None, 'Platinum, unwrought or in semi-manufactured\nforms, or in powder form.', '', None, None], ['7110.1', None, None, '-Platinum:', '', None, None], ['7110.11', None, None, '--Unwrought or in powder form', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.2', None, None, '-Palladium:', '', None, None], ['7110.21', None, None, '--Unwrought or in powder form', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.3', None, None, '-Rhodium:', '', None, None], ['7110.31', None, None, '--Unwrought or in powder form', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.4', None, None, '-Iridium, osmium and ruthenium:', '', None, None], ['7110.41', None, None, '--Unwrought or in powder form', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7110.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7111', None, None, 'Base metals, silver or gold, clad with platinum, not\nfurther worked than semi-manufactured.', '', None, None], ['7111.00', None, None, '-Base metals, silver or gold, clad with platinum, not\nfurther worked than semi-manufactured.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7112', None, None, 'Waste and scrap of precious metal or of metal\nclad with precious metal; other waste and scrap\ncontaining precious metal or precious metal\ncompounds, of a kind used principally for the\nrecovery of precious metal.', '', None, None], ['7112.30', None, None, '-Ash containing precious metal or precious metal\ncompounds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7112.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7112.91', None, None, '--Of gold, including metal clad with gold but\nexcluding sweepings containing other precious\nmetals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7112.92', None, None, '--Of platinum, including metal clad with platinum but\nexcluding sweepings containing other precious\nmetals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7112.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7113', None, None, 'Articles of jewellery and parts thereof, of precious\nmetal or of metal clad with precious metal.', '', None, None], ['7113.1', None, None, '-Of precious metal whether or not plated or clad\nwith precious metal:', '', None, None], ['7113.11', None, None, '--Of silver, whether or not plated or clad with other', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'precious metal', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7113.19', None, None, '--Of other precious metal, whether or not plated or\nclad with precious metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7113.20', None, None, '-Of base metal clad with precious metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7114', None, None, 'Articles of goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares and\nparts thereof, of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal.', '', None, None], ['7114.1', None, None, '-Of precious metal whether or not plated or clad\nwith precious metal:', '', None, None], ['7114.11', None, None, '--Of silver, whether or not plated or clad with other\nprecious metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7114.19', None, None, '--Of other precious metal, whether or not plated or\nclad with precious metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7114.20', None, None, '-Of base metal clad with precious metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7115', None, None, 'Other articles of precious metal or of metal clad\nwith precious metal.', '', None, None], ['7115.10', None, None, '-Catalysts in the form of wire cloth or grill, of\nplatinum', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7115.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7116', None, None, 'Articles of natural or cultured pearls, precious or\nsemi-precious stones (natural, synthetic or\nreconstructed).', '', None, None], ['7116.10', None, None, '-Of natural or cultured pearls', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7116.20', None, None, '-Of precious or semi-precious stones (natural,\nsynthetic or reconstructed)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7117', None, None, 'Imitation jewellery.', '', None, None], ['7117.1', None, None, '-Of base metal, whether or not plated with\nprecious metal:', '', None, None], ['7117.11', None, None, '--Cuff-links and studs', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7117.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7117.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7118', None, None, 'Coin.', '', None, None], ['7118.10', None, None, '-Coin (other than gold coin), not being legal tender', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7118.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XV -IRON AND STEEL', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 72', None, None, 'Iron and Steel', '', None, None], ['7201', None, None, 'Pig iron and spiegeleisen in pigs, blocks or other\nprimary forms.', '', None, None], ['7201.10', None, None, '-Non-alloy pig iron containing by weight 0.5 % or\nless of phosphorus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7201.20', None, None, '-Non-alloy pig iron containing by weight more than', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '0.5 % of phosphorus', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7201.50', None, None, '-Alloy pig iron; spiegeleisen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202', None, None, 'Ferro-alloys.', '', None, None], ['7202.1', None, None, '-Ferro-manganese:', '', None, None], ['7202.11', None, None, '--Containing by weight more than 2 % of carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.2', None, None, '-Ferro-silicon:', '', None, None], ['7202.21', None, None, '--Containing by weight more than 55 % of silicon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.30', None, None, '-Ferro-silico-manganese', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.4', None, None, '-Ferro-chromium:', '', None, None], ['7202.41', None, None, '--Containing by weight more than 4 % of carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.50', None, None, '-Ferro-silico-chromium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.60', None, None, '-Ferro-nickel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.70', None, None, '-Ferro-molybdenum', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.80', None, None, '-Ferro-tungsten and ferro-silico-tungsten', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7202.91', None, None, '--Ferro-titanium and ferro-silico-titanium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.92', None, None, '--Ferro-vanadium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.93', None, None, '--Ferro-niobium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7202.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7203', None, None, 'Ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of\niron ore and other spongy ferrous products, in\nlumps, pellets or similar forms; iron having a\nminimum purity by weight of 99.94 %, in lumps,\npellets or similar forms.', '', None, None], ['7203.10', None, None, '-Ferrous products obtained by direct reduction of iron\nore', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7203.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204', None, None, 'Ferrous waste and scrap; remelting scrap ingots\nof iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7204.10', None, None, '-Waste and scrap of cast iron', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.2', None, None, '-Waste and scrap of alloy steel:', '', None, None], ['7204.21', None, None, '--Of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap of tinned iron or steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.4', None, None, '-Other waste and scrap:', '', None, None], ['7204.41', None, None, '--Turnings, shavings, chips, milling waste, sawdust,\nfilings, trimmings and stampings, whether or not in\nbundles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7204.50', None, None, '-Remelting scrap ingots', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7205', None, None, 'Granules and powders, of pig iron, spiegeleisen,\niron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7205.10', None, None, '-Granules', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7205.2', None, None, '-Powders:', '', None, None], ['7205.21', None, None, '--Of alloy steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7205.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7206', None, None, 'Iron and non-alloy steel in ingots or other primary\nforms (excluding iron of heading 72.03).', '', None, None], ['7206.10', None, None, '-Ingots', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7206.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7207', None, None, 'Semi-finished products of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7207.1', None, None, '-Containing by weight less than 0.25 % of carbon:', '', None, None], ['7207.11', None, None, '--Of rectangular (including square) cross-section, the\nwidth measuring less than twice the thickness', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7207.12', None, None, '--Other, of rectangular (other than square) cross-\nsection', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7207.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7207.20', None, None, '-Containing by weight 0.25 % or more of carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a\nwidth of 600 mm or more, hot-rolled, not clad,\nplated or coated.', '', None, None], ['7208.10', None, None, '-In coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with\npatterns in relief', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.2', None, None, '-Other, in coils, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, pickled:', '', None, None], ['7208.25', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.26', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.27', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.3', None, None, '-Other, in coils, not further worked than hot-\nrolled:', '', None, None], ['7208.36', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.37', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not\nexceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.38', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.39', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.40', None, None, '-Not in coils, not further worked than hot-rolled, with\npatterns in relief', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.5', None, None, '-Other, not in coils, not further worked than hot-\nrolled:', '', None, None], ['7208.51', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.52', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not\nexceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.53', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.54', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a\nwidth of 600 mm or more, cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced), not clad, plated or coated.', '', None, None], ['7209.1', None, None, '-In coils, not further worked than cold-\nrolled(cold-reduced):', '', None, None], ['7209.15', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.16', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.17', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding\n1 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.18', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.2', None, None, '-Not in coils, not further worked than cold-\nrolled(cold-reduced):', '', None, None], ['7209.25', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.26', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.27', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding\n1 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.28', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7209.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH ex 7208 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a\nwidth of 600 mm or more, clad, plated or coated.', '', None, None], ['7210.1', None, None, '-Plated or coated with tin:', '', None, None], ['7210.11', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.12', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.20', None, None, '-Plated or coated with lead, including terne-plate', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.30', None, None, '-Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.4', None, None, '-Otherwise plated or coated with zinc:', '', None, None], ['7210.41', None, None, '--Corrugated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.50', None, None, '-Plated or coated with chromium oxides or with\nchromium and chromium oxides', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.6', None, None, '-Plated or coated with aluminium:', '', None, None], ['7210.61', None, None, '--Plated or coated with aluminium-zinc alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.70', None, None, '-Painted, varnished or coated with plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7210.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a\nwidth of less than 600 mm, not clad, plated or\ncoated.', '', None, None], ['7211.1', None, None, '-Not further worked than hot-rolled:', '', None, None], ['7211.13', None, None, '--Rolled on four faces or in a closed box pass, of a\nwidth exceeding 150 mm and a thickness of not less\nthan 4 mm, not in coils and without patterns in relief', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211.14', None, None, '--Other, of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211.2', None, None, '-Not further worked than cold-rolled(cold-\nreduced):', '', None, None], ['7211.23', None, None, '--Containing by weight less than 0.25 % of carbon', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7211.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of iron or non-alloy steel, of a\nwidth of less than 600 mm, clad, plated or coated.', '', None, None], ['7212.10', None, None, '-Plated or coated with tin', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212.20', None, None, '-Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212.30', None, None, '-Otherwise plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212.40', None, None, '-Painted, varnished or coated with plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212.50', None, None, '-Otherwise plated or coated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7212.60', None, None, '-Clad', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7213', None, None, 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly wound\ncoils, of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7213.10', None, None, '-Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other\ndeformations produced during the rolling process', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7213.20', None, None, '-Other, of free-cutting steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7213.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7213.91', None, None, '--Of circular cross-section measuring less than 14\nmm in diameter', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7213.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7214', None, None, 'Other bars and rods of iron or non-alloy steel, not\nfurther worked than forged, hot-rolled, hot-drawn\nor hot-extruded, but including those twisted after\nrolling.', '', None, None], ['7214.10', None, None, '-Forged', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7214.20', None, None, '-Containing indentations, ribs, grooves or other\ndeformations produced during the rolling process or\ntwisted after rolling', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7214.30', None, None, '-Other, of free-cutting steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7214.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7214.91', None, None, '--Of rectangular (other than square) cross-section', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7214.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7215', None, None, 'Other bars and rods of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7215.10', None, None, '-Of free-cutting steel, not further worked than cold-\nformed or cold-finished', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7215.50', None, None, '-Other, not further worked than cold-formed or cold-\nfinished', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7215.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216', None, None, 'Angles, shapes and sections of iron or non-alloy\nsteel.', '', None, None], ['7216.10', None, None, '-U, I or H sections, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a height of less than\n80 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.2', None, None, '-L or T sections, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, hot-drawn or extruded, of a height of less\nthan 80 mm:', '', None, None], ['7216.21', None, None, '--L sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.22', None, None, '--T sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.3', None, None, '-U, I or H sections, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, hot-drawn or extruded of a height of 80\nmm or more:', '', None, None], ['7216.31', None, None, '--U sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.32', None, None, '--I sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.33', None, None, '--H sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.40', None, None, '-L or T sections, not further worked than hot-rolled,\nhot-drawn or extruded, of a height of 80 mm or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.50', None, None, '-Other angles, shapes and sections, not further\nworked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.6', None, None, '-Angles, shapes and sections, not further worked\nthan cold-formed or cold-finished:', '', None, None], ['7216.61', None, None, '--Obtained from flat-rolled products', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7216.91', None, None, '--Cold-formed or cold-finished from flat-rolled\nproducts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7216.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7217', None, None, 'Wire of iron or non-alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7217.10', None, None, '-Not plated or coated, whether or not polished', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7217.20', None, None, '-Plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7217.30', None, None, '-Plated or coated with other base metals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7217.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7218', None, None, 'Stainless steel in ingots or other primary forms;\nsemi-finished products of stainless steel.', '', None, None], ['7218.10', None, None, '-Ingots and other primary forms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7218.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7218.91', None, None, '--Of rectangular (other than square) cross-section', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7218.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of a width of\n600 mm or more.', '', None, None], ['7219.1', None, None, '-Not further worked than hot-rolled, in coils:', '', None, None], ['7219.11', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.12', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not\nexceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.13', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.14', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 3 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.2', None, None, '-Not further worked than hot-rolled, not in coils:', '', None, None], ['7219.21', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.22', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more but not\nexceeding 10 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.23', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.24', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 3㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.3', None, None, '-Not further worked than cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced):', '', None, None], ['7219.31', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.32', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 3 mm or more but less than 4.75\nmm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.33', None, None, '--Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but less than 3 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.34', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 0.5 mm or more but not exceeding\n1 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.35', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 0.5 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7219.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7220', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of stainless steel, of a width of\nless than 600 mm.', '', None, None], ['7220.1', None, None, '-Not further worked than hot-rolled:', '', None, None], ['7220.11', None, None, '--Of a thickness of 4.75 mm or more', 'CTH ex 7219 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7220.12', None, None, '--Of a thickness of less than 4.75 mm', 'CTH ex 7219 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7220.20', None, None, '-Not further worked than cold-rolled (cold-reduced)', 'CTH ex 7219 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7220.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH ex 7219 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7221', None, None, 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly wound\ncoils, of stainless steel.', '', None, None], ['7221.00', None, None, '-Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly wound coils,\nof stainless steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7222', None, None, 'Other bars and rods of stainless steel; angles,\nshapes and sections of stainless steel.', '', None, None], ['7222.1', None, None, '-Bars and rods, not further worked than hot-', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'rolled, hot-drawn or extruded:', '', None, None], ['7222.11', None, None, '--Of circular cross-section', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7222.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7222.20', None, None, '-Bars and rods, not further worked than cold-formed\nor cold-finished', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7222.30', None, None, '-Other bars and rods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7222.40', None, None, '-Angles, shapes and sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7223', None, None, 'Wire of stainless steel.', '', None, None], ['7223.00', None, None, '-Wire of stainless steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7224', None, None, 'Other alloy steel in ingots or other primary forms;\nsemi-finished products of other alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7224.10', None, None, '-Ingots and other primary forms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7224.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel, of a width\nof 600 mm or more.', '', None, None], ['7225.1', None, None, '-Of silicon-electrical steel:', '', None, None], ['7225.11', None, None, '--Grain-oriented', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.30', None, None, '-Other, not further worked than hot-rolled, in coils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.40', None, None, '-Other, not further worked than hot-rolled, not in\ncoils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.50', None, None, '-Other, not further worked than cold-rolled (cold-\nreduced)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7225.91', None, None, '--Electrolytically plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.92', None, None, '--Otherwise plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7225.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226', None, None, 'Flat-rolled products of other alloy steel, of a width\nof less than 600 mm.', '', None, None], ['7226.1', None, None, '-Of silicon-electrical steel:', '', None, None], ['7226.11', None, None, '--Grain-oriented', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226.20', None, None, '-Of high speed steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7226.91', None, None, '--Not further worked than hot-rolled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226.92', None, None, '--Not further worked than cold-rolled (cold-reduced)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7226.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7227', None, None, 'Bars and rods, hot-rolled, in irregularly wound\ncoils, of other alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7227.10', None, None, '-Of high speed steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7227.20', None, None, '-Of silico-manganese steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7227.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228', None, None, 'Other bars and rods of other alloy steel; angles,\nshapes and sections, of other alloy steel; hollow\ndrill bars and rods, of alloy or non-alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7228.10', None, None, '-Bars and rods, of high speed steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.20', None, None, '-Bars and rods, of silico-manganese steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.30', None, None, '-Other bars and rods, not further worked than hot-\nrolled, hot-drawn or extruded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.40', None, None, '-Other bars and rods, not further worked than forged', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.50', None, None, '-Other bars and rods, not further worked than cold-\nformed or cold-finished', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.60', None, None, '-Other bars and rods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.70', None, None, '-Angles, shapes and sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7228.80', None, None, '-Hollow drill bars and rods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7229', None, None, 'Wire of other alloy steel.', '', None, None], ['7229.20', None, None, '-Of silico-manganese steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7229.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 73', None, None, 'Articles of Iron or Steel', '', None, None], ['7301', None, None, 'Sheet piling of iron or steel, whether or not\ndrilled, punched or made from assembled\nelements; welded angles, shapes and sections, of\niron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7301.10', None, None, '-Sheet piling', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7301.20', None, None, '-Angles, shapes and sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7302', None, None, 'Railway or tramway track construction material\nof iron or steel, the following : rails, check-rails\nand rack rails, switch blades, crossing frogs, point\nrods and other crossing pieces, sleepers (cross-', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'ties), fish-plates, chairs, chair wedges, sole plates\n(base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties and other\nmaterial specialized for jointing or fixing rails.', '', None, None], ['7302.10', None, None, '-Rails', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7302.30', None, None, '-Switch blades, crossing frogs, point rods and other\ncrossing pieces', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7302.40', None, None, '-Fish-plates and sole plates', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7302.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7303', None, None, 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron.', '', None, None], ['7303.00', None, None, '-Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, of cast iron.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304', None, None, 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles, seamless, of iron\n(other than cast iron) or steel.', '', None, None], ['7304.1', None, None, '-Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines:', '', None, None], ['7304.11', None, None, '--Of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.2', None, None, '-Casing, tubing and drill pipe, of a kind used in\ndrilling for oil or gas:', '', None, None], ['7304.22', None, None, '--Drill pipe of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.23', None, None, '--Other drill pipe', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.24', None, None, '--Other, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.3', None, None, '-Other, of circular cross-section, of iron or non-\nalloy steel:', '', None, None], ['7304.31', None, None, '--Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.4', None, None, '-Other, of circular cross-section, of stainless steel:', '', None, None], ['7304.41', None, None, '--Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.5', None, None, '-Other, of circular cross-section, of other alloy\nsteel:', '', None, None], ['7304.51', None, None, '--Cold-drawn or cold-rolled (cold-reduced)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7304.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305', None, None, 'Other tubes and pipes (for example, welded,\nriveted or similarly closed), having circular cross-\nsections, the external diameter of which exceeds\n406.4 mm, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7305.1', None, None, '-Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipelines:', '', None, None], ['7305.11', None, None, '--Longitudinally submerged arc welded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.12', None, None, '--Other, longitudinally welded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.20', None, None, '-Casing of a kind used in drilling for oil or gas', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.3', None, None, '-Other, welded:', '', None, None], ['7305.31', None, None, '--Longitudinally welded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7305.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306', None, None, 'Other tubes, pipes and hollow profiles (for\nexample, open seam or welded, riveted or\nsimilarly closed), of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7306.1', None, None, '-Line pipe of a kind used for oil or gas pipe-lines:', '', None, None], ['7306.11', None, None, '--Welded, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.2', None, None, '-Casing and tubing of a kind used in drilling for\noil or gas:', '', None, None], ['7306.21', None, None, '--Welded, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.30', None, None, '-Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of iron or\nnon-alloy steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.40', None, None, '-Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of stainless\nsteel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.50', None, None, '-Other, welded, of circular cross-section, of other\nalloy steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.6', None, None, '-Other, welded, of non-circular cross-section:', '', None, None], ['7306.61', None, None, '--Of square or rectangular cross-section', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.69', None, None, '--Of other non-circular cross-section', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7306.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307', None, None, 'Tube or pipe fittings (for example, couplings,\nelbows, sleeves), of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7307.1', None, None, '-Cast fittings:', '', None, None], ['7307.11', None, None, '--Of non-malleable cast iron', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.2', None, None, '-Other, of stainless steel:', '', None, None], ['7307.21', None, None, '--Flanges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.22', None, None, '--Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.23', None, None, '--Butt welding fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7307.91', None, None, '--Flanges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.92', None, None, '--Threaded elbows, bends and sleeves', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.93', None, None, '--Butt welding fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7307.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7308', None, None, 'Structures (excluding prefabricated buildings of\nheading 94.06) and parts of structures (for\nexample, bridges and bridge-sections, lock-gates,\ntowers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing frameworks,\ndoors and windows and their frames and\nthresholds for doors, shutters, balustrades, pillars\nand columns), of iron or steel; plates, rods, angles,\nshapes, sections, tubes and the like, prepared for\nuse in structures, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7308.10', None, None, '-Bridges and bridge-sections', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7308.20', None, None, '-Towers and lattice masts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7308.30', None, None, '-Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for\ndoors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7308.40', None, None, '-Equipment for scaffolding, shuttering, propping or\npitpropping', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7308.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7309', None, None, 'Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers for\nany material (other than compressed or liquefied\ngas), of iron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 ℓ,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not\nfitted with mechanical or thermal equipment.', '', None, None], ['7309.00', None, None, '-Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers for any\nmaterial (other than compressed or liquefied gas), of\niron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 ℓ, whether\nor not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with\nmechanical or thermal equipment.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7310', None, None, 'Tanks, casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar\ncontainers, for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of iron or steel, of a\ncapacity not exceeding 300 ℓ, whether or not lined\nor heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical\nor thermal equipment.', '', None, None], ['7310.10', None, None, '-Of a capacity of 50 ℓ or more', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7310.2', None, None, '-Of a capacity of less than 50 ℓ :', '', None, None], ['7310.21', None, None, '--Cans which are to be closed by soldering or\ncrimping', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7310.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7311', None, None, 'Containers for compressed or liquefied gas, of\niron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7311.00', None, None, '-Containers for compressed or liquefied gas, of iron\nor steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7312', None, None, 'Stranded wire, ropes, cables, plaited bands, slings\nand the like, of iron or steel, not electrically\ninsulated.', '', None, None], ['7312.10', None, None, '-Stranded wire, ropes and cables', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7312.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7313', None, None, 'Barbed wire of iron or steel; twisted hoop or\nsingle flat wire, barbed or not, and loosely twisted\ndouble wire, of a kind used for fencing, of iron or\nsteel.', '', None, None], ['7313.00', None, None, '-Barbed wire of iron or steel; twisted hoop or single\nflat wire, barbed or not, and loosely twisted double\nwire, of a kind used for fencing, of iron or steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314', None, None, 'Cloth (including endless bands), grill, netting and\nfencing, of iron or steel wire; expanded metal of\niron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7314.1', None, None, '-Woven cloth:', '', None, None], ['7314.12', None, None, '--Endless bands for machinery, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.14', None, None, '--Other woven cloth, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.20', None, None, '-Grill, netting and fencing, welded at the intersection,\nof wire with a maximum cross-sectional dimension of\n3 mm or more and having a mesh size of 100 cm2 or\nmore', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.3', None, None, '-Other grill, netting and fencing, welded at the\nintersection:', '', None, None], ['7314.31', None, None, '--Plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.4', None, None, '-Other cloth, grill, netting and fencing:', '', None, None], ['7314.41', None, None, '--Plated or coated with zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.42', None, None, '--Coated with plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7314.50', None, None, '-Expanded metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315', None, None, 'Chain and parts thereof, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7315.1', None, None, '-Articulated link chain and parts thereof:', '', None, None], ['7315.11', None, None, '--Roller chain', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.12', None, None, '--Other chain', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.19', None, None, '--Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.20', None, None, '-Skid chain', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.8', None, None, '-Other chain:', '', None, None], ['7315.81', None, None, '--Stud-link', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.82', None, None, '--Other, welded link', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7315.90', None, None, '-Other parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7316', None, None, 'Anchors, grapnels and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel.', '', None, None], ['7316.00', None, None, '-Anchors, grapnels and parts thereof, of iron or steel.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7317', None, None, 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails,\nstaples (other than those of heading 83.05) and\nsimilar articles, of iron or steel, whether or not\nwith heads of other material, but excluding such\narticles with heads of copper.', '', None, None], ['7317.00', None, None, '-Nails, tacks, drawing pins, corrugated nails, staples\n(other than those of heading 83.05) and similar\narticles, of iron or steel, whether or not with heads of\nother material, but excluding such articles with heads\nof copper.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318', None, None, 'Screws, bolts, nuts, coach screws, screw hooks,\nrivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers (including\nspring washers) and similar articles, of iron or\nsteel.', '', None, None], ['7318.1', None, None, '-Threaded articles:', '', None, None], ['7318.11', None, None, '--Coach screws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.12', None, None, '--Other wood screws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.13', None, None, '--Screw hooks and screw rings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.14', None, None, '--Self-tapping screws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.15', None, None, '--Other screws and bolts, whether or not with their\nnuts or washers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.16', None, None, '--Nuts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.2', None, None, '-Non-threaded articles:', '', None, None], ['7318.21', None, None, '--Spring washers and other lock washers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.22', None, None, '--Other washers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.23', None, None, '--Rivets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.24', None, None, '--Cotters and cotter-pins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7318.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7319', None, None, 'Sewing needles, knitting needles, bodkins, crochet\nhooks, embroidery stilettos and similar articles,\nfor use in the hand, of iron or steel; safety pins\nand other pins of iron or steel, not elsewhere\nspecified or included.', '', None, None], ['7319.40', None, None, '-Safety pins and other pins', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7319.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7320', None, None, 'Springs and leaves for springs, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7320.10', None, None, '-Leaf-springs and leaves therefor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7320.20', None, None, '-Helical springs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7320.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321', None, None, 'Stoves, ranges, grates, cookers (including those\nwith subsidiary boilers for central heating),\nbarbecues, braziers, gas-rings, plate warmers and\nsimilar non-electric domestic appliances, and\nparts thereof, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7321.1', None, None, '-Cooking appliances and plate warmers :', '', None, None], ['7321.11', None, None, '--For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.12', None, None, '--For liquid fuel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.19', None, None, '--Other, including appliances for solid fuel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.8', None, None, '-Other appliances:', '', None, None], ['7321.81', None, None, '--For gas fuel or for both gas and other fuels', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.82', None, None, '--For liquid fuel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.89', None, None, '--Other, including appliances for solid fuel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7321.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7322', None, None, 'Radiators for central heating, not electrically\nheated, and parts thereof, of iron or steel; air\nheaters and hot air distributors (including\ndistributors which can also distribute fresh or\nconditioned air), not electrically heated,\nincorporating a motor-driven fan or blower, and\nparts thereof, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7322.1', None, None, '-Radiators and parts thereof:', '', None, None], ['7322.11', None, None, '--Of cast iron', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7322.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7322.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323', None, None, 'Table, kitchen or other household articles and\nparts thereof, of iron or steel; iron or steel wool;\npot scourers and scouring or polishing pads,\ngloves and the like, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7323.10', None, None, '-Iron or steel wool; pot scourers and scouring or\npolishing pads, gloves and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7323.91', None, None, '--Of cast iron, not enamelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323.92', None, None, '--Of cast iron, enamelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323.93', None, None, '--Of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323.94', None, None, '--Of iron (other than cast iron) or steel, enamelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7323.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7324', None, None, 'Sanitary ware and parts thereof, of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7324.10', None, None, '-Sinks and wash basins, of stainless steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7324.2', None, None, '-Baths:', '', None, None], ['7324.21', None, None, '--Of cast iron, whether or not enamelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7324.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7324.90', None, None, '-Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7325', None, None, 'Other cast articles of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7325.10', None, None, '-Of non-malleable cast iron', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7325.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7325.91', None, None, '--Grinding balls and similar articles for mills', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7325.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7326', None, None, 'Other articles of iron or steel.', '', None, None], ['7326.1', None, None, '-Forged or stamped, but not further worked:', '', None, None], ['7326.11', None, None, '--Grinding balls and similar articles for mills', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7326.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7326.20', None, None, '-Articles of iron or steel wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7326.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 74', None, None, 'Copper and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['7401', None, None, 'Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated\ncopper).', '', None, None], ['7401.00', None, None, '-Copper mattes; cement copper (precipitated copper).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7402', None, None, 'Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic\nrefining.', '', None, None], ['7402.00', None, None, '-Unrefined copper; copper anodes for electrolytic\nrefining.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403', None, None, 'Refined copper and copper alloys, unwrought.', '', None, None], ['7403.1', None, None, '-Refined copper:', '', None, None], ['7403.11', None, None, '--Cathodes and sections of cathodes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.12', None, None, '--Wire-bars', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.13', None, None, '--Billets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.2', None, None, '-Copper alloys:', '', None, None], ['7403.21', None, None, '--Copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.22', None, None, '--Copper-tin base alloys (bronze)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7403.29', None, None, '--Other copper alloys (other than master alloys of\nheading 74.05)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7404', None, None, 'Copper waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['7404.00', None, None, '-Copper waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7405', None, None, 'Master alloys of copper.', '', None, None], ['7405.00', None, None, '-Master alloys of copper.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7406', None, None, 'Copper powders and flakes.', '', None, None], ['7406.10', None, None, '-Powders of non-lamellar structure', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7406.20', None, None, '-Powders of lamellar structure; flakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7407', None, None, 'Copper bars, rods and profiles.', '', None, None], ['7407.10', None, None, '-Of refined copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7407.2', None, None, '-Of copper alloys:', '', None, None], ['7407.21', None, None, '--Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7407.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7408', None, None, 'Copper wire.', '', None, None], ['7408.1', None, None, '-Of refined copper:', '', None, None], ['7408.11', None, None, '--Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension\nexceeds 6 mm', 'CTH ex 7407 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7408.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 7407 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7408.2', None, None, '-Of copper alloys:', '', None, None], ['7408.21', None, None, '--Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', 'CTH ex 7407 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7408.22', None, None, '--Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or\ncopper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver)', 'CTH ex 7407 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7408.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 7407 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409', None, None, 'Copper plates, sheets and strip, of a thickness\nexceeding 0.15 mm.', '', None, None], ['7409.1', None, None, '-Of refined copper:', '', None, None], ['7409.11', None, None, '--In coils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.2', None, None, '-Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass):', '', None, None], ['7409.21', None, None, '--In coils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.3', None, None, '-Of copper-tin base alloys (bronze):', '', None, None], ['7409.31', None, None, '--In coils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.40', None, None, '-Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupronickel) or\ncopper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7409.90', None, None, '-Of other copper alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7410', None, None, 'Copper foil (whether or not printed or backed\nwith paper, paperboard, plastics or similar\nbacking materials) of a thickness (excluding any\nbacking) not exceeding 0.15 mm.', '', None, None], ['7410.1', None, None, '-Not backed :', '', None, None], ['7410.11', None, None, '--Of refined copper', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7410.12', None, None, '--Of copper alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7410.2', None, None, '-Backed:', '', None, None], ['7410.21', None, None, '--Of refined copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7410.22', None, None, '--Of copper alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7411', None, None, 'Copper tubes and pipes.', '', None, None], ['7411.10', None, None, '-Of refined copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7411.2', None, None, '-Of copper alloys:', '', None, None], ['7411.21', None, None, '--Of copper-zinc base alloys (brass)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7411.22', None, None, '--Of copper-nickel base alloys (cupro-nickel) or\ncopper-nickel-zinc base alloys (nickel silver)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7411.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7412', None, None, 'Copper tube or pipe fittings (for example,\ncouplings, elbows, sleeves).', '', None, None], ['7412.10', None, None, '-Of refined copper', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7412.20', None, None, '-Of copper alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7413', None, None, 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like,\nof copper, not electrically insulated.', '', None, None], ['7413.00', None, None, '-Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like, of\ncopper, not electrically insulated.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7415', None, None, 'Nails, tacks, drawing pins, staples (other than\nthose of heading 83.05) and similar articles, of\ncopper or of iron or steel with heads of copper;\nscrews, bolts, nuts, screw hooks, rivets, cotters,\ncotter-pins, washers (including spring washers)\nand similar articles, of copper.', '', None, None], ['7415.10', None, None, '-Nails and tacks, drawing pins, staples and similar\narticles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7415.2', None, None, '-Other articles, not threaded:', '', None, None], ['7415.21', None, None, '--Washers (including spring washers)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7415.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7415.3', None, None, '-Other threaded articles:', '', None, None], ['7415.33', None, None, '--screws; bolts and nuts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7415.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7418', None, None, 'Table, kitchen or other household articles and\nparts thereof, of copper; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves and the like, of\ncopper; sanitary ware and parts thereof, of\ncopper.', '', None, None], ['7418.10', None, None, '-Table, kitchen or other household articles and parts\nthereof; pot scourers and scouring or polishing pads,\ngloves and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7418.20', None, None, '-Sanitary ware and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7419', None, None, 'Other articles of copper.', '', None, None], ['7419.10', None, None, '-Chain and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7419.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7419.91', None, None, '--Cast, moulded, stamped or forged, but not further\nworked', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7419.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 75', None, None, 'Nickel and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['7501', None, None, 'Nickel mattes, nickel oxide sinters and other\nintermediate products of nickel metallurgy.', '', None, None], ['7501.10', None, None, '-Nickel mattes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7501.20', None, None, '-Nickel oxide sinters and other intermediate products\nof nickel metallurgy', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7502', None, None, 'Unwrought nickel.', '', None, None], ['7502.10', None, None, '-Nickel, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7502.20', None, None, '-Nickel alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7503', None, None, 'Nickel waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['7503.00', None, None, '-Nickel waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7504', None, None, 'Nickel powders and flakes.', '', None, None], ['7504.00', None, None, '-Nickel powders and flakes.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7505', None, None, 'Nickel bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '', None, None], ['7505.1', None, None, '-Bars, rods and profiles:', '', None, None], ['7505.11', None, None, '--Of nickel, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7505.12', None, None, '--Of nickel alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7505.2', None, None, '-Wire:', '', None, None], ['7505.21', None, None, '--Of nickel, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7505.22', None, None, '--Of nickel alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7506', None, None, 'Nickel plates, sheets, strip and foil.', '', None, None], ['7506.10', None, None, '-Of nickel, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7506.20', None, None, '-Of nickel alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7507', None, None, 'Nickel tubes, pipes and tube or pipe fittings (for\nexample, couplings, elbows, sleeves).', '', None, None], ['7507.1', None, None, '-Tubes and pipes:', '', None, None], ['7507.11', None, None, '--Of nickel, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7507.12', None, None, '--Of nickel alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7507.20', None, None, '-Tube or pipe fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7508', None, None, 'Other articles of nickel.', '', None, None], ['7508.10', None, None, '-Cloth, grill and netting, of nickel wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7508.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 76', None, None, 'Aluminium and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['7601', None, None, 'Unwrought aluminium.', '', None, None], ['7601.10', None, None, '-Aluminium, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7601.20', None, None, '-Aluminium alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7602', None, None, 'Aluminium waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['7602.00', None, None, '-Aluminium waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7603', None, None, 'Aluminium powders and flakes.', '', None, None], ['7603.10', None, None, '-Powders of non-lamellar structure', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7603.20', None, None, '-Powders of lamellar structure; flakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7604', None, None, 'Aluminium bars, rods and profiles.', '', None, None], ['7604.10', None, None, '-Of aluminium, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7604.2', None, None, '-Of aluminium alloys:', '', None, None], ['7604.21', None, None, '--Hollow profiles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7604.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7605', None, None, 'Aluminium wire.', '', None, None], ['7605.1', None, None, '-Of aluminium, not alloyed:', '', None, None], ['7605.11', None, None, '--Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension\nexceeds 7 mm', 'CTH ex 7604 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7605.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 7604 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7605.2', None, None, '-Of aluminium alloys:', '', None, None], ['7605.21', None, None, '--Of which the maximum cross-sectional dimension\nexceeds 7 mm', 'CTH ex 7604 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7605.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH ex 7604 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7606', None, None, 'Aluminium plates, sheets and strip, of a thickness\nexceeding 0.2 mm.', '', None, None], ['7606.1', None, None, '-Rectangular (including square):', '', None, None], ['7606.11', None, None, '--Of aluminium, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7606.12', None, None, '--Of aluminium alloys', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7606.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7606.91', None, None, '--Of aluminium, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7606.92', None, None, '--Of aluminium alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7607', None, None, 'Aluminium foil (whether or not printed or backed\nwith paper, paperboard, plastics or similar\nbacking materials) of a thickness (excluding any\nbacking) not exceeding 0.2 mm.', '', None, None], ['7607.1', None, None, '-Not backed:', '', None, None], ['7607.11', None, None, '--Rolled but not further worked', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7607.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7607.20', None, None, '-Backed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7608', None, None, 'Aluminium tubes and pipes.', '', None, None], ['7608.10', None, None, '-Of aluminium, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7608.20', None, None, '-Of aluminium alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7609', None, None, 'Aluminium tube or pipe fittings (for example,\ncouplings, elbows, sleeves).', '', None, None], ['7609.00', None, None, '-Aluminium tube or pipe fittings (for example,\ncouplings, elbows, sleeves).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7610', None, None, 'Aluminium structures (excluding prefabricated\nbuildings of heading 94.06) and parts of structures\n(for example, bridges and bridge-sections, towers,\nlattice masts, roofs, roofing frameworks, doors\nand windows and their frames and thresholds for\ndoors, balustrades, pillars and columns);\naluminium plates, rods, profiles, tubes and the\nlike, prepared for use in structures.', '', None, None], ['7610.10', None, None, '-Doors, windows and their frames and thresholds for\ndoors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7610.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7611', None, None, 'Aluminium reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers, for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of a capacity\nexceeding 300 ℓ, whether or not lined or heat-\ninsulated, but not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment.', '', None, None], ['7611.00', None, None, '-Aluminium reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar\ncontainers, for any material (other than compressed\nor liquefied gas), of a capacity exceeding 300 ℓ,\nwhether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted\nwith mechanical or thermal equipment.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7612', None, None, 'Aluminium casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar\ncontainers (including rigid or collapsible tubular', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'containers), for any material (other than\ncompressed or liquefied gas), of a capacity not\nexceeding 300 ℓ, whether or not lined or heat-\ninsulated, but not fitted with mechanical or\nthermal equipment.', '', None, None], ['7612.10', None, None, '-Collapsible tubular containers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7612.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7613', None, None, 'Aluminium containers for compressed or liquefied\ngas.', '', None, None], ['7613.00', None, None, '-Aluminium containers for compressed or liquefied\ngas.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7614', None, None, 'Stranded wire, cables, plaited bands and the like,\nof aluminium, not electrically insulated.', '', None, None], ['7614.10', None, None, '-With steel core', 'CTH ex 7605 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7614.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH ex 7605 or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7615', None, None, 'Table, kitchen or other household articles and\nparts thereof, of aluminium; pot scourers and\nscouring or polishing pads, gloves and the like, of\naluminium; sanitary ware and parts thereof, of\naluminium.', '', None, None], ['7615.10', None, None, '-Table, kitchen or other household articles and parts\nthereof; pot scourers and scouring or polishing pads,\ngloves and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7615.20', None, None, '-Sanitary ware and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7616', None, None, 'Other articles of aluminium.', '', None, None], ['7616.10', None, None, '-Nails, tacks, staples (other than those of heading\n83.05), screws, bolts, nuts, screw hooks, rivets,\ncotters, cotter-pins, washers and similar articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7616.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7616.91', None, None, '--Cloth, grill, netting and fencing, of aluminium wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7616.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 78', None, None, 'Lead and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['7801', None, None, 'Unwrought lead.', '', None, None], ['7801.10', None, None, '-Refined lead', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7801.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['7801.91', None, None, '--Containing by weight antimony as the principal\nother element', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7801.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7802', None, None, 'Lead waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['7802.00', None, None, '-Lead waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7804', None, None, 'Lead plates, sheets, strip and foil; lead powders', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'and flakes.', '', None, None], ['7804.1', None, None, '-Plates, sheets, strip and foil:', '', None, None], ['7804.11', None, None, '--Sheets, strip and foil of a thickness (excluding any\nbacking) not exceeding 0.2 mm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7804.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7804.20', None, None, '-Powders and flakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7806', None, None, 'Other articles of lead.', '', None, None], ['7806.00', None, None, '-Other articles of lead.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 79', None, None, 'Zinc and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['7901', None, None, 'Unwrought zinc.', '', None, None], ['7901.1', None, None, '-Zinc, not alloyed:', '', None, None], ['7901.11', None, None, '--Containing by weight 99.99 % or more of zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7901.12', None, None, '--Containing by weight less than 99.99 % of zinc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7901.20', None, None, '-Zinc alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7902', None, None, 'Zinc waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['7902.00', None, None, '-Zinc waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7903', None, None, 'Zinc dust, powders and flakes.', '', None, None], ['7903.10', None, None, '-Zinc Dust', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7903.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7904', None, None, 'Zinc bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '', None, None], ['7904.00', None, None, '-Zinc bars, rods, profiles and wire.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7905', None, None, 'Zinc plates, sheets, strip and foil.', '', None, None], ['7905.00', None, None, '-Zinc plates, sheets, strip and foil.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['7907', None, None, 'Other articles of zinc.', '', None, None], ['7907.00', None, None, '-Other articles of zinc.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 80', None, None, 'Tin and Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['8001', None, None, 'Unwrought tin.', '', None, None], ['8001.10', None, None, '-Tin, not alloyed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8001.20', None, None, '-Tin alloys', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8002', None, None, 'Tin waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['8002.00', None, None, '-Tin waste and scrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8003', None, None, 'Tin bars, rods, profiles and wire.', '', None, None], ['8003.00', None, None, '-Tin bars, rods, profiles and wire.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8007', None, None, 'Other articles of tin.', '', None, None], ['8007.00', None, None, '-Other articles of tin.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 81', None, None, 'Other Base Metals; Cermets; Articles Thereof', '', None, None], ['8101', None, None, 'Tungsten (wolfram) and articles thereof, including\nwaste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['8101.10', None, None, '-Powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8101.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8101.94', None, None, '--Unwrought tungsten, including bars and rods\nobtained simply by sintering', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8101.96', None, None, '--Wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8101.97', None, None, '--Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8101.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102', None, None, 'Molybdenum and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8102.10', None, None, '-Powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8102.94', None, None, '--Unwrought molybdenum, including bars and rods\nobtained simply by sintering', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102.95', None, None, '--Bars and rods, other than those obtained simply by\nsintering, profiles, plates, sheets, strip and foil', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102.96', None, None, '--Wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102.97', None, None, '--Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8102.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8103', None, None, 'Tantalum and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8103.20', None, None, '-Unwrought tantalum, including bars and rods\nobtained simply by sintering; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8103.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8103.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8104', None, None, 'Magnesium and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8104.1', None, None, '-Unwrought magnesium:', '', None, None], ['8104.11', None, None, '--Containing at least 99.8 % by weight of magnesium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8104.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8104.20', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8104.30', None, None, '-Raspings, turnings and granules, graded according to\nsize; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8104.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8105', None, None, 'Cobalt mattes and other intermediate products of\ncobalt metallurgy; cobalt and articles thereof,\nincluding waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['8105.20', None, None, '-Cobalt mattes and other intermediate products of\ncobalt metallurgy; unwrought cobalt; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8105.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8105.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8106', None, None, 'Bismuth and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', '', None, None], ['8106.00', None, None, '-Bismuth and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8107', None, None, 'Cadmium and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8107.20', None, None, '-Unwrought cadmium; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8107.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8107.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8108', None, None, 'Titanium and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', '', None, None], ['8108.20', None, None, '-Unwrought titanium; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8108.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8108.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8109', None, None, 'Zirconium and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8109.20', None, None, '-Unwrought zirconium; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8109.30', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8109.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8110', None, None, 'Antimony and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8110.10', None, None, '-Unwrought antimony; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8110.20', None, None, '-Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8110.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8111', None, None, 'Manganese and articles thereof, including waste\nand scrap.', '', None, None], ['8111.00', None, None, '-Manganese and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112', None, None, 'Beryllium, chromium, germanium, vanadium,\ngallium, hafnium, indium, niobium (columbium),\nrhenium and thallium, and articles of these\nmetals, including waste and scrap.', '', None, None], ['8112.1', None, None, '-Beryllium:', '', None, None], ['8112.12', None, None, '--Unwrought; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.13', None, None, '--Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.2', None, None, '-Chromium:', '', None, None], ['8112.21', None, None, '--Unwrought; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.22', None, None, '--Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.5', None, None, '-Thallium:', '', None, None], ['8112.51', None, None, '--Unwrought; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.52', None, None, '--Waste and scrap', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8112.92', None, None, '--Unwrought; waste and scrap; powders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8112.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8113', None, None, 'Cermets and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', '', None, None], ['8113.00', None, None, '-Cermets and articles thereof, including waste and\nscrap.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 82', None, None, 'Tools, Implements, Cutlery, Spoons and Forks, of\nBase Metal; Parts Thereof of Base Metal', '', None, None], ['8201', None, None, 'Hand tools, the following : spades, shovels,\nmattocks, picks, hoes, forks and rakes; axes, bill\nhooks and similar hewing tools; secateurs and\npruners of any kind; scythes, sickles, hay knives,\nhedge shears, timber wedges and other tools of a\nkind used in agriculture, horticulture or forestry.', '', None, None], ['8201.10', None, None, '-Spades and shovels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8201.30', None, None, '-Mattocks, picks, hoes and rakes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8201.40', None, None, '-Axes, bill hooks and similar hewing tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8201.50', None, None, '-Secateurs and similar one-handed pruners and shears\n(including poultry shears)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8201.60', None, None, '-Hedge shears, two-handed pruning shears and', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'similar two-handed shears', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8201.90', None, None, '-Other hand tools of a kind used in agriculture,\nhorticulture or forestry', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202', None, None, 'Hand saws; blades for saws of all kinds (including\nslitting, slotting or toothless saw blades).', '', None, None], ['8202.10', None, None, '-Hand saws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.20', None, None, '-Band saw blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.3', None, None, '-Circular saw blades (including slitting or slotting\nsaw blades):', '', None, None], ['8202.31', None, None, '--With working part of steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.39', None, None, '--Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.40', None, None, '-Chain saw blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.9', None, None, '-Other saw blades:', '', None, None], ['8202.91', None, None, '--Straight saw blades, for working metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8202.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8203', None, None, 'Files, rasps, pliers (including cutting pliers),\npincers, tweezers, metal cutting shears, pipe-\ncutters, bolt croppers, perforating punches and\nsimilar hand tools.', '', None, None], ['8203.10', None, None, '-Files, rasps and similar tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8203.20', None, None, '-Pliers (including cutting pliers), pincers, tweezers\nand similar tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8203.30', None, None, '-Metal cutting shears and similar tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8203.40', None, None, '-Pipe-cutters, bolt croppers, perforating punches and\nsimilar tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8204', None, None, 'Hand-operated spanners and wrenches (including\ntorque meter wrenches but not including tap\nwrenches); interchangeable spanner sockets, with\nor without handles.', '', None, None], ['8204.1', None, None, '-Hand-operated spanners and wrenches:', '', None, None], ['8204.11', None, None, '--Non-adjustable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8204.12', None, None, '--Adjustable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8204.20', None, None, '-Interchangeable spanner sockets, with or without\nhandles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205', None, None, "Hand tools (including glaziers' diamonds), not\nelsewhere specified or included; blow lamps; vices,\nclamps and the like, other than accessories for and\nparts of, machine-tools or water-jet cutting\nmachines; anvils; portable forges; hand or pedal-\noperated grinding wheels with frameworks.", '', None, None], ['8205.10', None, None, '-Drilling, threading or tapping tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.20', None, None, '-Hammers and sledge hammers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.30', None, None, '-Planes, chisels, gouges and similar cutting tools for\nworking wood', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.40', None, None, '-Screwdrivers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.5', None, None, "-Other hand tools (including glaziers' diamonds):", '', None, None], ['8205.51', None, None, '--Household tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.60', None, None, '-Blow lamps', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.70', None, None, '-Vices, clamps and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8205.90', None, None, '-Other, including sets of articles of two or more\nsubheadings of this heading', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8206', None, None, 'Tools of two or more of the headings 82.02 to\n82.05, put up in sets for retail sale.', '', None, None], ['8206.00', None, None, '-Tools of two or more of the headings 82.02 to 82.05,\nput up in sets for retail sale.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207', None, None, 'Interchangeable tools for hand tools, whether or\nnot power-operated, or for machine-tools (for\nexample, for pressing, stamping, punching,\ntapping, threading, drilling, boring, broaching,\nmilling, turning or screw driving), including dies\nfor drawing or extruding metal, and rock drilling\nor earth boring tools.', '', None, None], ['8207.1', None, None, '-Rock drilling or earth boring tools:', '', None, None], ['8207.13', None, None, '--With working part of cermets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.19', None, None, '--Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.20', None, None, '-Dies for drawing or extruding metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.30', None, None, '-Tools for pressing, stamping or punching', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.40', None, None, '-Tools for tapping or threading', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.50', None, None, '-Tools for drilling, other than for rock drilling', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.60', None, None, '-Tools for boring or broaching', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.70', None, None, '-Tools for milling', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.80', None, None, '-Tools for turning', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8207.90', None, None, '-Other interchangeable tools', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8208', None, None, 'Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for\nmechanical appliances.', '', None, None], ['8208.10', None, None, '-For metal working', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8208.20', None, None, '-For wood working', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8208.30', None, None, '-For kitchen appliances or for machines used by the\nfood industry', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8208.40', None, None, '-For agricultural, horticultural or forestry machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8209', None, None, 'Plates, sticks, tips and the like for tools,\nunmounted, of cermets.', '', None, None], ['8209.00', None, None, '-Plates, sticks, tips and the like for tools, unmounted,\nof cermets.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8210', None, None, 'Hand-operated mechanical appliances, weighing\n10 kg or less, used in the preparation, conditioning\nor serving of food or drink.', '', None, None], ['8210.00', None, None, '-Hand-operated mechanical appliances, weighing 10\nkg or less, used in the preparation, conditioning or\nserving of food or drink.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211', None, None, 'Knives with cutting blades, serrated or not\n(including pruning knives), other than knives of\nheading 82.08, and blades therefor.', '', None, None], ['8211.10', None, None, '-Sets of assorted articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8211.91', None, None, '--Table knives having fixed blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211.92', None, None, '--Other knives having fixed blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211.93', None, None, '--Knives having other than fixed blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211.94', None, None, '--Blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8211.95', None, None, '--Handles of base metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8212', None, None, 'Razors and razor blades (including razor blade\nblanks in strips).', '', None, None], ['8212.10', None, None, '-Razors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8212.20', None, None, '-Safety razor blades, including razor blade blanks in\nstrips', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8212.90', None, None, '-Other parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8213', None, None, 'Scissors, tailors’ shears and similar shears, and\nblades therefor.', '', None, None], ['8213.00', None, None, '-Scissors, tailors’ shears and similar shears, and\nblades therefor.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8214', None, None, 'Other articles of cutlery (for example, hair', '', None, None], ['', None, None, "clippers, butchers' or kitchen cleavers, choppers\nand mincing knives, paper knives); manicure or\npedicure sets and instruments (including nail\nfiles).", '', None, None], ['8214.10', None, None, '-Paper knives, letter openers, erasing knives, pencil\nsharpeners and blades therefor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8214.20', None, None, '-Manicure or pedicure sets and instruments\n(including nail files)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8214.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8215', None, None, 'Spoons, forks, ladles, skimmers, cake-servers, fish-\nknives, butter-knives, sugar tongs and similar\nkitchen or tableware.', '', None, None], ['8215.10', None, None, '-Sets of assorted articles containing at least one\narticle plated with precious metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8215.20', None, None, '-Other sets of assorted articles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8215.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8215.91', None, None, '--Plated with precious metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8215.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 83', None, None, 'Miscellaneous Articles of Base Metal', '', None, None], ['8301', None, None, 'Padlocks and locks (key, combination or\nelectrically operated), of base metal; clasps and\nframes with clasps, incorporating locks, of base\nmetal; keys for any of the foregoing articles, of\nbase metal.', '', None, None], ['8301.10', None, None, '-Padlocks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.20', None, None, '-Locks of a kind used for motor vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.30', None, None, '-Locks of a kind used for furniture', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.40', None, None, '-Other locks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.50', None, None, '-Clasps and frames with clasps, incorporating locks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.60', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8301.70', None, None, '-Keys presented separately', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302', None, None, 'Base Metal Mountings, Fittings and Similar\nArticles Suitable For Furniture, Doors, Staircases,\nWindows, Blinds, Coachwork, Saddlery, Trunks,\nChests, Caskets or the Like; Base Metal Hat-\nracks, Hat-pegs, Brackets and Similar Fixtures;\nCastors with Mountings of Base Metal; Automatic\nDoor Closers of Base Metal.', '', None, None], ['8302.10', None, None, '-Hinges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.20', None, None, '-Castors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.30', None, None, '-Other mountings, fittings and similar articles\nsuitable for motor vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.4', None, None, '-Other mountings, fittings and similar articles:', '', None, None], ['8302.41', None, None, '--Suitable for buildings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.42', None, None, '--Other, suitable for furniture', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.50', None, None, '-Hat-racks, hat-pegs, brackets and similar fixtures', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8302.60', None, None, '-Automatic door closers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8303', None, None, 'Armoured or reinforced safes, strong-boxes and\ndoors and safe deposit lockers for strong-rooms,\ncash or deed boxes and the like, of base metal.', '', None, None], ['8303.00', None, None, '-Armoured or reinforced safes, strong-boxes and\ndoors and safe deposit lockers for strong-rooms, cash\nor deed boxes and the like, of base metal.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8304', None, None, 'Filing cabinets, card-index cabinets, paper trays,\npaper rests, pen trays, office-stamp stands and\nsimilar office or desk equipment, of base metal,\nother than office furniture of heading 94.03.', '', None, None], ['8304.00', None, None, '-Filing cabinets, card-index cabinets, paper trays,\npaper rests, pen trays, office-stamp stands and similar\noffice or desk equipment, of base metal, other than\noffice furniture of heading 94.03.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8305', None, None, 'Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files, letter clips,\nletter corners, paper clips, indexing tags and\nsimilar office articles, of base metal; staples in\nstrips (for example, for offices, upholstery,\npackaging), of base metal.', '', None, None], ['8305.10', None, None, '-Fittings for loose-leaf binders or files', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8305.20', None, None, '-Staples in strips', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8305.90', None, None, '-Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8306', None, None, 'Bells, gongs and the like, non-electric, of base\nmetal; statuettes and other ornaments, of base\nmetal; photograph, picture or similar frames, of\nbase metal; mirrors of base metal.', '', None, None], ['8306.10', None, None, '-Bells, gongs and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8306.2', None, None, '-Statuettes and other ornaments:', '', None, None], ['8306.21', None, None, '--Plated with precious metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8306.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8306.30', None, None, '-Photograph, picture or similar frames; mirrors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8307', None, None, 'Flexible tubing of base metal, with or without\nfittings.', '', None, None], ['8307.10', None, None, '-Of iron or steel', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8307.90', None, None, '-Of other base metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8308', None, None, 'Clasps, frames with clasps, buckles, buckle-clasps,\nhooks, eyes, eyelets and the like, of base metal, of a\nkind used for clothing or clothing accessories,\nfootwear, jewellery, wrist-watches, books,\nawnings, leather goods, travel goods or saddlery\nor for other made up articles; tubular or\nbifurcated rivets, of base metal; beads and\nspangles, of base metal.', '', None, None], ['8308.10', None, None, '-Hooks, eyes and eyelets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8308.20', None, None, '-Tubular or bifurcated rivets', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8308.90', None, None, '-Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8309', None, None, 'Stoppers, caps and lids (including crown corks,\nscrew caps and pouring stoppers), capsules for\nbottles, threaded bungs, bung covers, seals and\nother packing accessories, of base metal.', '', None, None], ['8309.10', None, None, '-Crown corks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8309.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8310', None, None, 'Sign-plates, name-plates, address-plates and\nsimilar plates, numbers, letters and other symbols,\nof base metal, excluding those of heading 94.05.', '', None, None], ['8310.00', None, None, '-Sign-plates, name-plates, address-plates and similar\nplates, numbers, letters and other symbols, of base\nmetal, excluding those of heading 94.05.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8311', None, None, 'Wire, rods, tubes, plates, electrodes and similar\nproducts, of base metal or of metal carbides,\ncoated or cored with flux material, of a kind used\nfor soldering, brazing, welding or deposition of\nmetal or of metal carbides; wire and rods, of\nagglomerated base metal powder, used for metal\nspraying.', '', None, None], ['8311.10', None, None, '-Coated electrodes of base metal, for electric arc-\nwelding', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8311.20', None, None, '-Cored wire of base metal, for electric arc-welding', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8311.30', None, None, '-Coated rods and cored wire, of base metal, for\nsoldering, brazing or welding by flame', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8311.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XVI -MACHINERY AND MECHANICAL APPLIANCES;\nELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT; PARTS THEREOF; SOUND RECORDERS AND\nREPRODUCERS, AND TELEVISION IMAGE AND SOUND RECORDERS AND\nREPRODUCERS, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES OF SUCH ARTICLES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 84', None, None, 'Nuclear Reactors, Boilers, Machinery and\nMechanical Appliances; Parts Thereof', '', None, None], ['8401', None, None, 'Nuclear reactors; fuel elements (cartridges), non-\nirradiated, for nuclear reactors; machinery and\napparatus for isotopic separation.', '', None, None], ['8401.10', None, None, '-Nuclear reactors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8401.20', None, None, '-Machinery and apparatus for isotopic separation, and\nparts thereof', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8401.30', None, None, '-Fuel elements (cartridges), non-irradiated', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8401.40', None, None, '-Parts of nuclear reactors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8402', None, None, 'Steam or other vapour generating boilers (other\nthan central heating hot water boilers capable also\nof producing low pressure steam); super-heated\nwater boilers.', '', None, None], ['8402.1', None, None, '-Steam or other vapour generating boilers:', '', None, None], ['8402.11', None, None, '--Watertube boilers with a steam production\nexceeding 45 t per hour', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8402.12', None, None, '--Watertube boilers with a steam production not\nexceeding 45 t per hour', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8402.19', None, None, '--Other vapour generating boilers, including hybrid\nboilers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8402.20', None, None, '-Super-heated water boilers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8402.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8403', None, None, 'Central heating boilers other than those of\nheading 84.02.', '', None, None], ['8403.10', None, None, '-Boilers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8403.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8404', None, None, 'Auxiliary plant for use with boilers of heading\n84.02 or 84.03 (for example, economisers, super-\nheaters, soot removers, gas recoverers);\ncondensers for steam or other vapour power units.', '', None, None], ['8404.10', None, None, '-Auxiliary plant for use with boilers of heading 84.02\nor 84.03', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8404.20', None, None, '-Condensers for steam or other vapour power units', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8404.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8405', None, None, 'Producer gas or water gas generators, with or\nwithout their purifiers; acetylene gas generators\nand similar water process gas generators, with or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'without their purifiers.', '', None, None], ['8405.10', None, None, '-Producer gas or water gas generators, with or\nwithout their purifiers; acetylene gas generators and\nsimilar water process gas generators, with or without\ntheir purifiers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8405.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8406', None, None, 'Steam turbines and other vapour turbines.', '', None, None], ['8406.10', None, None, '-Turbines for marine propulsion', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8406.8', None, None, '-Other turbines:', '', None, None], ['8406.81', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 40 MW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8406.82', None, None, '--Of an output not exceeding 40 MW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8406.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407', None, None, 'Spark-ignition reciprocating or rotary internal\ncombustion piston engines.', '', None, None], ['8407.10', None, None, '-Aircraft engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.2', None, None, '-Marine propulsion engines:', '', None, None], ['8407.21', None, None, '--Outboard motors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.3', None, None, '-Reciprocating piston engines of a kind used for\nthe propulsion of vehicles of Chapter 87:', '', None, None], ['8407.31', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50 cc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.32', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not\nexceeding 250 cc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.33', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but not\nexceeding 1,000 cc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.34', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8407.90', None, None, '-Other engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8408', None, None, 'Compression-ignition internal combustion piston\nengines (diesel or semi-diesel engines).', '', None, None], ['8408.10', None, None, '-Marine propulsion engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8408.20', None, None, '-Engines of a kind used for the propulsion of vehicles\nof Chapter 87', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8408.90', None, None, '-Other engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8409', None, None, 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\nengines of heading 84.07 or 84.08.', '', None, None], ['8409.10', None, None, '-For aircraft engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8409.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8409.91', None, None, '--Suitable for use solely or principally with spark-\nignition internal combustion piston engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8409.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8410', None, None, 'Hydraulic turbines, water wheels, and regulators\ntherefor.', '', None, None], ['8410.1', None, None, '-Hydraulic turbines and water wheels:', '', None, None], ['8410.11', None, None, '--Of a power not exceeding 1,000 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8410.12', None, None, '--Of a power exceeding 1,000 kW but not exceeding\n10,000 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8410.13', None, None, '--Of a power exceeding 10,000 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8410.90', None, None, '-Parts, including regulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411', None, None, 'Turbo-jets, turbo-propellers and other gas\nturbines.', '', None, None], ['8411.1', None, None, '-Turbo-jets:', '', None, None], ['8411.11', None, None, '--Of a thrust not exceeding 25 kN', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.12', None, None, '--Of a thrust exceeding 25 kN', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.2', None, None, '-Turbo-propellers:', '', None, None], ['8411.21', None, None, '--Of a power not exceeding 1,100 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.22', None, None, '--Of a power exceeding 1,100 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.8', None, None, '-Other gas turbines:', '', None, None], ['8411.81', None, None, '--Of a power not exceeding 5,000 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.82', None, None, '--Of a power exceeding 5,000 kW', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8411.91', None, None, '--Of turbo-jets or turbo-propellers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8411.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412', None, None, 'Other engines and motors.', '', None, None], ['8412.10', None, None, '-Reaction engines other than turbo-jets', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.2', None, None, '-Hydraulic power engines and motors:', '', None, None], ['8412.21', None, None, '--Linear acting (cylinders)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.3', None, None, '-Pneumatic power engines and motors:', '', None, None], ['8412.31', None, None, '--Linear acting (cylinders)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.80', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8412.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413', None, None, 'Pumps for liquids, whether or not fitted with a\nmeasuring device; liquid elevators.', '', None, None], ['8413.1', None, None, '-Pumps fitted or designed to be fitted with a\nmeasuring device:', '', None, None], ['8413.11', None, None, '--Pumps for dispensing fuel or lubricants, of the type\nused in filling-stations or in garages', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.20', None, None, '-Hand pumps, other than those of subheading\n8413.11 or 8413.19', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.30', None, None, '-Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for\ninternal combustion piston engines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.40', None, None, '-Concrete pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.50', None, None, '-Other reciprocating positive displacement pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.60', None, None, '-Other rotary positive displacement pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.70', None, None, '-Other centrifugal pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.8', None, None, '-Other pumps; liquid elevators:', '', None, None], ['8413.81', None, None, '--Pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.82', None, None, '--Liquid elevators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8413.91', None, None, '--Of pumps', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8413.92', None, None, '--Of liquid elevators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414', None, None, 'Air or vacuum pumps, air or other gas\ncompressors and fans; ventilating or recycling\nhoods incorporating a fan, whether or not fitted\nwith filters.', '', None, None], ['8414.10', None, None, '-Vacuum pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.20', None, None, '-Hand- or foot-operated air pumps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.30', None, None, '-Compressors of a kind used in refrigerating\nequipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.40', None, None, '-Air compressors mounted on a wheeled chassis for\ntowing', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.5', None, None, '-Fans:', '', None, None], ['8414.51', None, None, '--Table, floor, wall, window, ceiling or roof fans,\nwith a self-contained electric motor of an output not\nexceeding 125 W', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.60', None, None, '-Hoods having a maximum horizontal side not\nexceeding 120 cm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.80', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8414.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415', None, None, 'Air conditioning machines, comprising a motor-\ndriven fan and elements for changing the\ntemperature and humidity, including those\nmachines in which the humidity cannot be\nseparately regulated.', '', None, None], ['8415.10', None, None, '-Of a kind designed to be fixed to a window, wall,\nceiling or floor, self-contained or "split-system"', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415.20', None, None, '-Of a kind used for persons, in motor vehicles', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415.8', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8415.81', None, None, '--Incorporating a refrigerating unit and a valve for\nreversal of the cooling/heat cycle (reversible heat\npumps)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415.82', None, None, '--Other, incorporating a refrigerating unit', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415.83', None, None, '--Not incorporating a refrigerating unit', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8415.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8416', None, None, 'Furnace burners for liquid fuel, for pulverised\nsolid fuel or for gas; mechanical stokers, including\ntheir mechanical grates, mechanical ash\ndischargers and similar appliances.', '', None, None], ['8416.10', None, None, '-Furnace burners for liquid fuel', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8416.20', None, None, '-Other furnace burners, including combination\nburners', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8416.30', None, None, '-Mechanical stokers, including their mechanical\ngrates, mechanical ash dischargers and similar\nappliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8416.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8417', None, None, 'Industrial or laboratory furnaces and ovens,\nincluding incinerators, non-electric.', '', None, None], ['8417.10', None, None, '-Furnaces and ovens for the roasting, melting or other\nheat-treatment of ores, pyrites or of metals', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8417.20', None, None, '-Bakery ovens, including biscuit ovens', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8417.80', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8417.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418', None, None, 'Refrigerators, freezers and other refrigerating or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'freezing equipment, electric or other; heat pumps\nother than air conditioning machines of heading\n84.15.', '', None, None], ['8418.10', None, None, '-Combined refrigerator-freezers, fitted with separate\nexternal doors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.2', None, None, '-Refrigerators, household type:', '', None, None], ['8418.21', None, None, '--Compression-type', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.30', None, None, '-Freezers of the chest type, not exceeding 800 ℓ\ncapacity', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.40', None, None, '-Freezers of the upright type, not exceeding 900 ℓ\ncapacity', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.50', None, None, '-Other furniture (chests, cabinets, display counters,\nshow-cases and the like) for storage and display,\nincorporating refrigerating or freezing equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.6', None, None, '-Other refrigerating or freezing equipment; heat\npumps:', '', None, None], ['8418.61', None, None, '--Heat pumps other than air conditioning machines of\nheading 84.15', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8418.91', None, None, '--Furniture designed to receive refrigerating or\nfreezing equipment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8418.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419', None, None, 'Machinery, plant or laboratory equipment,\nwhether or not electrically heated (excluding\nfurnaces, ovens and other equipment of heading\n85.14), for the treatment of materials by a process\ninvolving a change of temperature such as heating,\ncooking, roasting, distilling, rectifying, sterilising,\npasteurising, steaming, drying, evaporating,\nvaporising, condensing or cooling, other than\nmachinery or plant of a kind used for domestic\npurposes; instantaneous or storage water heaters,\nnon-electric.', '', None, None], ['8419.1', None, None, '-Instantaneous or storage water heaters, non-\nelectric:', '', None, None], ['8419.11', None, None, '--Instantaneous gas water heaters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.20', None, None, '-Medical, surgical or laboratory sterilisers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.3', None, None, '-Dryers:', '', None, None], ['8419.31', None, None, '--For agricultural products', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.32', None, None, '--For wood, paper pulp, paper or paperboard', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.40', None, None, '-Distilling or rectifying plant', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.50', None, None, '-Heat exchange units', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.60', None, None, '-Machinery for liquefying air or other gases', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.8', None, None, '-Other machinery, plant and equipment:', '', None, None], ['8419.81', None, None, '--For making hot drinks or for cooking or heating\nfood', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8419.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8420', None, None, 'Calendering or other rolling machines, other than\nfor metals or glass, and cylinders therefor.', '', None, None], ['8420.10', None, None, '-Calendering or other rolling machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8420.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8420.91', None, None, '--Cylinders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8420.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421', None, None, 'Centrifuges, including centrifugal dryers; filtering\nor purifying machinery and apparatus, for liquids\nor gases.', '', None, None], ['8421.1', None, None, '-Centrifuges, including centrifugal dryers:', '', None, None], ['8421.11', None, None, '--Cream separators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.12', None, None, '--Clothes-dryers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.2', None, None, '-Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus\nfor liquids:', '', None, None], ['8421.21', None, None, '--For filtering or purifying water', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.22', None, None, '--For filtering or purifying beverages other than water', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.23', None, None, '--Oil or petrol-filters for internal combustion engines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.3', None, None, '-Filtering or purifying machinery and apparatus\nfor gases:', '', None, None], ['8421.31', None, None, '--Intake air filters for internal combustion engines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8421.91', None, None, '--Of centrifuges, including centrifugal dryers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8421.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422', None, None, 'Dish washing machines; machinery for cleaning or\ndrying bottles or other containers; machinery for\nfilling, closing, sealing or labelling bottles, cans,\nboxes, bags or other containers; machinery for\ncapsuling bottles, jars, tubes and similar\ncontainers; other packing or wrapping machinery\n(including heat-shrink wrapping machinery);\nmachinery for aerating beverages.', '', None, None], ['8422.1', None, None, '-Dish washing machines:', '', None, None], ['8422.11', None, None, '--Of the household type', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422.20', None, None, '-Machinery for cleaning or drying bottles or other\ncontainers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422.30', None, None, '-Machinery for filling, closing, sealing or labelling\nbottles, cans, boxes, bags or other containers;\nmachinery for capsuling bottles, jars, tubes and\nsimilar containers; machinery for aerating beverages', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422.40', None, None, '-Other packing or wrapping machinery (including\nheat-shrink wrapping machinery)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8422.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423', None, None, 'Weighing machinery (excluding balances of a\nsensitivity of 5 cg or better), including weight\noperated counting or checking machines;\nweighing machine weights of all kinds.', '', None, None], ['8423.10', None, None, '-Personal weighing machines, including baby scales;\nhousehold scales', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.20', None, None, '-Scales for continuous weighing of goods on\nconveyors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.30', None, None, '-Constant weight scales and scales for discharging a\npredetermined weight of material into a bag or\ncontainer, including hopper scales', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.8', None, None, '-Other weighing machinery:', '', None, None], ['8423.81', None, None, '--Having a maximum weighing capacity not\nexceeding 30 kg', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.82', None, None, '--Having a maximum weighing capacity exceeding\n30 kg but not exceeding 5,000 kg', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8423.90', None, None, '-Weighing machine weights of all kinds; parts of\nweighing machinery', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424', None, None, 'Mechanical appliances (whether or not hand-\noperated) for projecting, dispersing or spraying', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'liquids or powders; fire extinguishers, whether or\nnot charged; spray guns and similar appliances;\nsteam or sand blasting machines and similar jet\nprojecting machines.', '', None, None], ['8424.10', None, None, '-Fire extinguishers, whether or not charged', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.20', None, None, '-Spray guns and similar appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.30', None, None, '-Steam or sand blasting machines and similar jet\nprojecting machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.4', None, None, '-Agricultural or horticultural sprayers:', '', None, None], ['8424.41', None, None, '-- Portable sprayers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.8', None, None, '-Other appliances:', '', None, None], ['8424.82', None, None, '--Agricultural or horticultural', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8424.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425', None, None, 'Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip hoists;\nwinches and capstans; jacks.', '', None, None], ['8425.1', None, None, '-Pulley tackle and hoists other than skip hoists or\nhoists of a kind used for raising vehicles:', '', None, None], ['8425.11', None, None, '--Powered by electric motor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.3', None, None, '-Winches; capstans:', '', None, None], ['8425.31', None, None, '--Powered by electric motor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.4', None, None, '-Jacks; hoists of a kind used for raising vehicles:', '', None, None], ['8425.41', None, None, '--Built-in jacking systems of a type used in garages', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.42', None, None, '--Other jacks and hoists, hydraulic', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8425.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426', None, None, "Ships' derricks; cranes, including cable cranes;\nmobile lifting frames, straddle carriers and works\ntrucks fitted with a crane.", '', None, None], ['8426.1', None, None, '-Overhead travelling cranes, transporter cranes,\ngantry cranes, bridge cranes, mobile lifting frames\nand straddle carriers:', '', None, None], ['8426.11', None, None, '--Overhead travelling cranes on fixed support', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.12', None, None, '--Mobile lifting frames on tyres and straddle carriers', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.20', None, None, '-Tower cranes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.30', None, None, '-Portal or pedestal jib cranes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.4', None, None, '-Other machinery, self-propelled:', '', None, None], ['8426.41', None, None, '--On tyres', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.9', None, None, '-Other machinery:', '', None, None], ['8426.91', None, None, '--Designed for mounting on road vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8426.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8427', None, None, 'Fork-lift trucks; other works trucks fitted with\nlifting or handling equipment.', '', None, None], ['8427.10', None, None, '-Self-propelled trucks powered by an electric motor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8427.20', None, None, '-Other self-propelled trucks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8427.90', None, None, '-Other trucks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428', None, None, 'Other lifting, handling, loading or unloading\nmachinery (for example, lifts, escalators,\nconveyors, teleferics).', '', None, None], ['8428.10', None, None, '-Lifts and skip hoists', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.20', None, None, '-Pneumatic elevators and conveyors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.3', None, None, '-Other continuous-action elevators and conveyors,\nfor goods or materials:', '', None, None], ['8428.31', None, None, '--Specially designed for underground use', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.32', None, None, '--Other, bucket type', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.33', None, None, '--Other, belt type', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.40', None, None, '-Escalators and moving walkways', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.60', None, None, '-Teleferics, chair-lifts, ski-draglines; traction\nmechanisms for funiculars', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8428.90', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429', None, None, 'Self-propelled bulldozers, angledozers, graders,\nlevellers, scrapers, mechanical shovels, excavators,\nshovel loaders, tamping machines and road', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'rollers.', '', None, None], ['8429.1', None, None, '-Bulldozers and angledozers:', '', None, None], ['8429.11', None, None, '--Track laying', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.20', None, None, '-Graders and levellers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.30', None, None, '-Scrapers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.40', None, None, '-Tamping machines and road rollers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.5', None, None, '-Mechanical shovels, excavators and shovel\nloaders:', '', None, None], ['8429.51', None, None, '--Front-end shovel loaders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.52', None, None, '--Machinery with a 360° revolving superstructure', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8429.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430', None, None, 'Other moving, grading, levelling, scraping,\nexcavating, tamping, compacting, extracting or\nboring machinery, for earth, minerals or ores;\npile-drivers and pile-extractors; snow-ploughs and\nsnow-blowers.', '', None, None], ['8430.10', None, None, '-Pile-drivers and pile-extractors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.20', None, None, '-Snow-ploughs and snow-blowers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.3', None, None, '-Coal or rock cutters and tunnelling machinery:', '', None, None], ['8430.31', None, None, '--Self-propelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.4', None, None, '-Other boring or sinking machinery:', '', None, None], ['8430.41', None, None, '--Self-propelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.50', None, None, '-Other machinery, self-propelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.6', None, None, '-Other machinery, not self-propelled:', '', None, None], ['8430.61', None, None, '--Tamping or compacting machinery', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8430.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431', None, None, 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\nmachinery of headings 84.25 to 84.30.', '', None, None], ['8431.10', None, None, '-Of machinery of heading 84.25', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.20', None, None, '-Of machinery of heading 84.27', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.3', None, None, '-Of machinery of heading 84.28:', '', None, None], ['8431.31', None, None, '--Of lifts, skip hoists or escalators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.4', None, None, '-Of machinery of heading 84.26, 84.29 or 84.30 :', '', None, None], ['8431.41', None, None, '--Buckets, shovels, grabs and grips', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.42', None, None, '--Bulldozer or angledozer blades', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.43', None, None, '--Parts for boring or sinking machinery of subheading\n8430.41 or 8430.49', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8431.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432', None, None, 'Agricultural, horticultural or forestry machinery\nfor soil preparation or cultivation; lawn or sports-\nground rollers.', '', None, None], ['8432.10', None, None, '-Ploughs', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.2', None, None, '-Harrows, scarifiers, cultivators, weeders and\nhoes:', '', None, None], ['8432.21', None, None, '--Disc harrows', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.3', None, None, '-Seeders, planters and transplanters:', '', None, None], ['8432.31', None, None, '-- No-till direct seeders, planters and transplanters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.4', None, None, '-Manure spreaders and fertiliser distributors:', '', None, None], ['8432.41', None, None, '--Manure spreaders', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.42', None, None, '--Fertiliser distributors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8432.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433', None, None, 'Harvesting or threshing machinery, including\nstraw or fodder balers; grass or hay mowers;\nmachines for cleaning, sorting or grading eggs,\nfruit or other agricultural produce, other than\nmachinery of heading 84.37.', '', None, None], ['8433.1', None, None, '-Mowers for lawns, parks or sports-grounds:', '', None, None], ['8433.11', None, None, '--Powered, with the cutting device rotating in a\nhorizontal plane', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.20', None, None, '-Other mowers, including cutter bars for tractor\nmounting', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.30', None, None, '-Other haymaking machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.40', None, None, '-Straw or fodder balers, including pick-up balers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.5', None, None, '-Other harvesting machinery; threshing\nmachinery:', '', None, None], ['8433.51', None, None, '--Combine harvester-threshers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.52', None, None, '--Other threshing machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.53', None, None, '--Root or tuber harvesting machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.60', None, None, '-Machines for cleaning, sorting or grading eggs, fruit\nor other agricultural produce', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8433.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8434', None, None, 'Milking machines and dairy machinery.', '', None, None], ['8434.10', None, None, '-Milking machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8434.20', None, None, '-Dairy machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8434.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8435', None, None, 'Presses, crushers and similar machinery used in\nthe manufacture of wine, cider, fruit juices or\nsimilar beverages.', '', None, None], ['8435.10', None, None, '-Machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8435.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436', None, None, 'Other agricultural, horticultural, forestry,\npoultry-keeping or bee-keeping machinery,\nincluding germination plant fitted with\nmechanical or thermal equipment; poultry\nincubators and brooders.', '', None, None], ['8436.10', None, None, '-Machinery for preparing animal feeding stuffs', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436.2', None, None, '-Poultry-keeping machinery; poultry incubators\nand brooders:', '', None, None], ['8436.21', None, None, '--Poultry incubators and brooders', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8436.91', None, None, '--Of poultry-keeping machinery or poultry incubators', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'and brooders', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8436.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8437', None, None, 'Machines for cleaning, sorting or grading seed,\ngrain or dried leguminous vegetables; machinery\nused in the milling industry or for the working of\ncereals or dried leguminous vegetables, other than\nfarm-type machinery.', '', None, None], ['8437.10', None, None, '-Machines for cleaning, sorting or grading seed, grain\nor dried leguminous vegetables', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8437.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8437.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438', None, None, 'Machinery, not specified or included elsewhere in\nthis Chapter, for the industrial preparation or\nmanufacture of food or drink, other than\nmachinery for the extraction or preparation of\nanimal or fixed vegetable fats or oils.', '', None, None], ['8438.10', None, None, '-Bakery machinery and machinery for the\nmanufacture of macaroni, spaghetti or similar\nproducts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.20', None, None, '-Machinery for the manufacture of confectionery,\ncocoa or chocolate', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.30', None, None, '-Machinery for sugar manufacture', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.40', None, None, '-Brewery machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.50', None, None, '-Machinery for the preparation of meat or poultry', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.60', None, None, '-Machinery for the preparation of fruits, nuts or\nvegetables', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8438.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8439', None, None, 'Machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic\nmaterial or for making or finishing paper or\npaperboard.', '', None, None], ['8439.10', None, None, '-Machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic\nmaterial', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8439.20', None, None, '-Machinery for making paper or paperboard', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8439.30', None, None, '-Machinery for finishing paper or paperboard', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8439.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8439.91', None, None, '--Of machinery for making pulp of fibrous cellulosic\nmaterial', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8439.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8440', None, None, 'Book-binding machinery, including book-sewing', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'machines.', '', None, None], ['8440.10', None, None, '-Machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8440.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441', None, None, 'Other machinery for making up paper pulp,\npaper or paperboard, including cutting machines\nof all kinds.', '', None, None], ['8441.10', None, None, '-Cutting machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441.20', None, None, '-Machines for making bags, sacks or envelopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441.30', None, None, '-Machines for making cartons, boxes, cases, tubes,\ndrums or similar containers, other than by moulding', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441.40', None, None, '-Machines for moulding articles in paper pulp, paper\nor paperboard', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8441.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8442', None, None, 'Machinery, apparatus and equipment (other than\nthe machines of headings 84.56 to 84.65) for\npreparing or making plates, cylinders or other\nprinting components; plates, cylinders and other\nprinting components; plates, cylinders and\nlithographic stones, prepared for printing\npurposes (for example, planed, grained or\npolished).', '', None, None], ['8442.30', None, None, '-Machinery, apparatus and equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8442.40', None, None, '-Parts of the foregoing machinery, apparatus or\nequipment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8442.50', None, None, '-Plates, cylinders and other printing components;\nplates, cylinders and lithographic stones, prepared for\nprinting purposes (for example, planed, grained or\npolished)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443', None, None, 'Printing machinery used for printing by means of\nplates, cylinders and other printing components of\nheading 84.42; other printers, copying machines\nand facsimile machines, whether or not combined;\nparts and accessories thereof.', '', None, None], ['8443.1', None, None, '-Printing machinery used for printing by means of\nplates, cylinders and other printing components of\nheading 84.42:', '', None, None], ['8443.11', None, None, '--Offset printing machinery, reel-fed', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.12', None, None, '--Offset printing machinery, sheet-fed, office type\n(using sheets with one side not exceeding 22 cm and\nthe other side not exceeding 36 cm in the unfolded\nstate)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.13', None, None, '--Other offset printing machinery', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.14', None, None, '--Letterpress printing machinery, reel fed, excluding\nflexographic printing', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.15', None, None, '--Letterpress printing machinery, other than reel fed,\nexcluding flexographic printing', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.16', None, None, '--Flexographic printing machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.17', None, None, '--Gravure printing machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.3', None, None, '-Other printers, copying machines and facsimile\nmachines, whether or not combined:', '', None, None], ['8443.31', None, None, '--Machines which perform two or more of the\nfunctions of printing, copying or facsimile\ntransmission, capable of connecting to an automatic\ndata processing machine or to a network', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.32', None, None, '--Other, capable of connecting to an automatic data\nprocessing machine or to a network', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.9', None, None, '-Parts and accessories:', '', None, None], ['8443.91', None, None, '--Parts and accessories of printing machinery used for\nprinting by means of plates, cylinders and other\nprinting components of heading 84.42', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8443.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8444', None, None, 'Machines for extruding, drawing, texturing or\ncutting man-made textile materials.', '', None, None], ['8444.00', None, None, '-Machines for extruding, drawing, texturing or\ncutting man-made textile materials.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445', None, None, 'Machines for preparing textile fibres; spinning,\ndoubling or twisting machines and other\nmachinery for producing textile yarns; textile\nreeling or winding (including weft-winding)\nmachines and machines for preparing textile\nyarns for use on the machines of heading 84.46 or\n84.47.', '', None, None], ['8445.1', None, None, '-Machines for preparing textile fibres:', '', None, None], ['8445.11', None, None, '--Carding machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.12', None, None, '--Combing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.13', None, None, '--Drawing or roving machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.20', None, None, '-Textile spinning machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.30', None, None, '-Textile doubling or twisting machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.40', None, None, '-Textile winding (including weft-winding) or reeling\nmachines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8445.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8446', None, None, 'Weaving machines (looms).', '', None, None], ['8446.10', None, None, '-For weaving fabrics of a width not exceeding 30 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8446.2', None, None, '-For weaving fabrics of a width exceeding 30 cm,\nshuttle type:', '', None, None], ['8446.21', None, None, '--Power looms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8446.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8446.30', None, None, '-For weaving fabrics of a width exceeding 30 cm,\nshuttleless type', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8447', None, None, 'Knitting machines, stitch-bonding machines and\nmachines for making gimped yarn, tulle, lace,\nembroidery, trimmings, braid or net and\nmachines for tufting.', '', None, None], ['8447.1', None, None, '-Circular knitting machines:', '', None, None], ['8447.11', None, None, '--With cylinder diameter not exceeding 165 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8447.12', None, None, '--With cylinder diameter exceeding 165 ㎜', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8447.20', None, None, '-Flat knitting machines; stitch-bonding machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8447.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448', None, None, 'Auxiliary machinery for use with machines of\nheading 84.44, 84.45, 84.46 or 84.47 (for example,\ndobbies, Jacquards, automatic stop motions,\nshuttle changing mechanisms); parts and\naccessories suitable for use solely or principally\nwith the machines of this heading or of heading\n84.44, 84.45, 84.46 or 84.47 (for example, spindles\nand spindle flyers, card clothing, combs, extruding\nnipples, shuttles, healds and heald-frames, hosiery\nneedles).', '', None, None], ['8448.1', None, None, '-Auxiliary machinery for machines of heading\n84.44, 84.45, 84.46 or 84.47:', '', None, None], ['8448.11', None, None, '--Dobbies and Jacquards; card reducing, copying,\npunching or assembling machines for use therewith', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.20', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of machines of heading 84.44\nor of their auxiliary machinery', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.3', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of machines of heading\n84.45 or of their auxiliary machinery :', '', None, None], ['8448.31', None, None, '--Card clothing', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.32', None, None, '--Of machines for preparing textile fibres, other than', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'card clothing', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.33', None, None, '--Spindles, spindle flyers, spinning rings and ring\ntravellers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.4', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of weaving machines\n(looms) or of their auxiliary machinery:', '', None, None], ['8448.42', None, None, '--Reeds for looms, healds and heald-frames', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.5', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of machines of heading\n84.47 or of their auxiliary machinery:', '', None, None], ['8448.51', None, None, '--Sinkers, needles and other articles used in forming\nstitches', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8448.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8449', None, None, 'Machinery for the manufacture or finishing of felt\nor nonwovens in the piece or in shapes, including\nmachinery for making felt hats; blocks for making\nhats.', '', None, None], ['8449.00', None, None, '-Machinery for the manufacture or finishing of felt or\nnonwovens in the piece or in shapes, including\nmachinery for making felt hats; blocks for making\nhats.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8450', None, None, 'Household or laundry-type washing machines,\nincluding machines which both wash and dry.', '', None, None], ['8450.1', None, None, '-Machines, each of a dry linen capacity not\nexceeding 10 kg:', '', None, None], ['8450.11', None, None, '--Fully-automatic machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8450.12', None, None, '--Other machines, with built-in centrifugal drier', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8450.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8450.20', None, None, '-Machines, each of a dry linen capacity exceeding 10\nkg', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8450.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451', None, None, 'Machinery (other than machines of heading 84.50)\nfor washing, cleaning, wringing, drying, ironing,\npressing (including fusing presses), bleaching,\ndyeing, dressing, finishing, coating or\nimpregnating textile yarns, fabrics or made up\ntextile articles and machines for applying the\npaste to the base fabric or other support used in\nthe manufacture of floor coverings such as\nlinoleum; machines for reeling, unreeling, folding,\ncutting or pinking textile fabrics.', '', None, None], ['8451.10', None, None, '-Dry-cleaning machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.2', None, None, '-Drying machines:', '', None, None], ['8451.21', None, None, '--Each of a dry linen capacity not exceeding 10 kg', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.30', None, None, '-Ironing machines and presses (including fusing\npresses)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.40', None, None, '-Washing, bleaching or dyeing machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.50', None, None, '-Machines for reeling, unreeling, folding, cutting or\npinking textile fabrics', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8451.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8452', None, None, 'Sewing machines, other than book-sewing\nmachines of heading 84.40; furniture, bases and\ncovers specially designed for sewing machines;\nsewing machine needles.', '', None, None], ['8452.10', None, None, '-Sewing machines of the household type', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8452.2', None, None, '-Other sewing machines:', '', None, None], ['8452.21', None, None, '--Automatic units', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8452.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8452.30', None, None, '-Sewing machine needles', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8452.90', None, None, '-Furniture, bases and covers for sewing machines and\nparts thereof; other parts of sewing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8453', None, None, 'Machinery for preparing, tanning or working\nhides, skins or leather or for making or repairing\nfootwear or other articles of hides, skins or\nleather, other than sewing machines.', '', None, None], ['8453.10', None, None, '-Machinery for preparing, tanning or working hides,\nskins or leather', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8453.20', None, None, '-Machinery for making or repairing footwear', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8453.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8453.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8454', None, None, 'Converters, ladles, ingot moulds and casting\nmachines, of a kind used in metallurgy or in metal\nfoundries.', '', None, None], ['8454.10', None, None, '-Converters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8454.20', None, None, '-Ingot moulds and ladles', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8454.30', None, None, '-Casting machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8454.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8455', None, None, 'Metal-rolling mills and rolls therefor.', '', None, None], ['8455.10', None, None, '-Tube mills', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8455.2', None, None, '-Other rolling mills:', '', None, None], ['8455.21', None, None, '--Hot or combination hot and cold', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8455.22', None, None, '--Cold', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8455.30', None, None, '-Rolls for rolling mills', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8455.90', None, None, '-Other parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456', None, None, 'Machine-tools for working any material by\nremoval of material, by laser or other light or\nphoton beam, ultrasonic, electro-discharge,\nelectro-chemical, electron beam, ionic-beam or\nplasma arc processes; water-jet cutting machines.', '', None, None], ['8456.1', None, None, '-Operated by laser or other light or photon beam\nprocesses:', '', None, None], ['8456.11', None, None, '--Operated by laser', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.12', None, None, '--Operated by other light or photon beam processes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.20', None, None, '-Operated by ultrasonic processes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.30', None, None, '-Operated by electro-discharge processes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.40', None, None, '-Operated by plasma arc processes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.50', None, None, '-Water-jet cutting machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8456.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8457', None, None, 'Machining centres, unit construction machines\n(single station) and multi-station transfer\nmachines, for working metal.', '', None, None], ['8457.10', None, None, '-Machining centres', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8457.20', None, None, '-Unit construction machines (single station)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8457.30', None, None, '-Multi-station transfer machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8458', None, None, 'Lathes (including turning centres) for removing\nmetal.', '', None, None], ['8458.1', None, None, '-Horizontal lathes:', '', None, None], ['8458.11', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8458.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8458.9', None, None, '-Other lathes:', '', None, None], ['8458.91', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8458.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459', None, None, 'Machine-tools (including way-type unit head\nmachines) for drilling, boring, milling, threading\nor tapping by removing metal, other than lathes\n(including turning centres) of heading 84.58.', '', None, None], ['8459.10', None, None, '-Way-type unit head machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.2', None, None, '-Other drilling machines:', '', None, None], ['8459.21', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.3', None, None, '-Other boring-milling machines:', '', None, None], ['8459.31', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.4', None, None, '-Other boring machines:', '', None, None], ['8459.41', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.5', None, None, '-Milling machines, knee-type:', '', None, None], ['8459.51', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.6', None, None, '-Other milling machines:', '', None, None], ['8459.61', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8459.70', None, None, '-Other threading or tapping machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460', None, None, 'Machine-tools for deburring, sharpening,\ngrinding, honing, lapping, polishing or otherwise\nfinishing metal or cermets by means of grinding\nstones, abrasives or polishing products, other than\ngear cutting, gear grinding or gear finishing\nmachines of heading 84.61.', '', None, None], ['8460.1', None, None, '-Flat-surface grinding machines:', '', None, None], ['8460.12', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.2', None, None, '-Other grinding machines:', '', None, None], ['8460.22', None, None, '--Centreless grinding machines, numerically\ncontrolled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.23', None, None, '--Other cylindrical grinding machines, numerically\ncontrolled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.24', None, None, '--Other, numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.3', None, None, '-Sharpening(tool or cutter grinding) machines:', '', None, None], ['8460.31', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.40', None, None, '-Honing or lapping machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8460.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8461', None, None, 'Machine-tools for planing, shaping, slotting,\nbroaching, gear cutting, gear grinding or gear\nfinishing, sawing, cutting-off and other machine-\ntools working by removing metal or cermets, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['8461.20', None, None, '-Shaping or slotting machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8461.30', None, None, '-Broaching machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8461.40', None, None, '-Gear cutting, gear grinding or gear finishing\nmachines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8461.50', None, None, '-Sawing or cutting-off machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8461.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462', None, None, 'Machine-tools (including presses) for working\nmetal by forging, hammering or die-stamping;\nmachine-tools (including presses) for working\nmetal by bending, folding, straightening,\nflattening, shearing, punching or notching; presses\nfor working metal or metal carbides, not specified\nabove.', '', None, None], ['8462.10', None, None, '-Forging or die-stamping machines (including\npresses) and hammers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.2', None, None, '-Bending, folding, straightening or flattening\nmachines (including presses):', '', None, None], ['8462.21', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.3', None, None, '-Shearing machines (including presses), other than\ncombined punching and shearing machines:', '', None, None], ['8462.31', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.4', None, None, '-Punching or notching machines (including\npresses), including combined punching and\nshearing machines:', '', None, None], ['8462.41', None, None, '--Numerically controlled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8462.91', None, None, '--Hydraulic presses', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8462.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8463', None, None, 'Other machine-tools for working metal or\ncermets, without removing material.', '', None, None], ['8463.10', None, None, '-Draw-benches for bars, tubes, profiles, wire or the\nlike', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8463.20', None, None, '-Thread rolling machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8463.30', None, None, '-Machines for working wire', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8463.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8464', None, None, 'Machine-tools for working stone, ceramics,\nconcrete, asbestos-cement or like mineral\nmaterials or for cold working glass.', '', None, None], ['8464.10', None, None, '-Sawing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8464.20', None, None, '-Grinding or polishing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8464.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465', None, None, 'Machine-tools (including machines for nailing,\nstapling, glueing or otherwise assembling) for\nworking wood, cork, bone, hard rubber, hard\nplastics or similar hard materials.', '', None, None], ['8465.10', None, None, '-Machines which can carry out different types of\nmachining operations without tool change between\nsuch operations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.20', None, None, '-Machining centres', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8465.91', None, None, '--Sawing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.92', None, None, '--Planing, milling or moulding (by cutting) machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.93', None, None, '--Grinding, sanding or polishing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.94', None, None, '--Bending or assembling machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.95', None, None, '--Drilling or morticing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.96', None, None, '--Splitting, slicing or paring machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8465.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466', None, None, 'Parts and accessories suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the machines of headings 84.56 to\n84.65, including work or tool holders, self-opening\ndieheads, dividing heads and other special\nattachments for the machines; tool holders for any\ntype of tool for working in the hand.', '', None, None], ['8466.10', None, None, '-Tool holders and self-opening dieheads', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.20', None, None, '-Work holders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.30', None, None, '-Dividing heads and other special attachments for\nmachines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8466.91', None, None, '--For machines of heading 84.64', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.92', None, None, '--For machines of heading 84.65', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.93', None, None, '--For machines of headings 84.56 to 84.61', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8466.94', None, None, '--For machines of heading 84.62 or 84.63', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467', None, None, 'Tools for working in the hand, pneumatic,\nhydraulic or with self-contained electric or non-\nelectric motor.', '', None, None], ['8467.1', None, None, '-Pneumatic:', '', None, None], ['8467.11', None, None, '--Rotary type (including combined rotary-percussion)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.2', None, None, '-With self-contained electric motor:', '', None, None], ['8467.21', None, None, '--Drills of all kinds', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.22', None, None, '--Saws', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.8', None, None, '-Other tools:', '', None, None], ['8467.81', None, None, '--Chain saws', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8467.91', None, None, '--Of chain saws', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.92', None, None, '--Of pneumatic tools', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8467.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8468', None, None, 'Machinery and apparatus for soldering, brazing\nor welding, whether or not capable of cutting,\nother than those of heading 85.15; gas-operated\nsurface tempering machines and appliances.', '', None, None], ['8468.10', None, None, '-Hand-held blow pipes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8468.20', None, None, '-Other gas-operated machinery and apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8468.80', None, None, '-Other machinery and apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8468.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470', None, None, 'Calculating machines and pocket-size data\nrecording, reproducing and displaying machines\nwith calculating functions; accounting machines,\npostage-franking machines, ticket-issuing\nmachines and similar machines, incorporating a\ncalculating device; cash registers.', '', None, None], ['8470.10', None, None, '-Electronic calculators capable of operation without\nan external source of electric power and pocket-size\ndata recording, reproducing and displaying machines\nwith calculating functions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470.2', None, None, '-Other electronic calculating machines:', '', None, None], ['8470.21', None, None, '--Incorporating a printing device', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470.30', None, None, '-Other calculating machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470.50', None, None, '-Cash registers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8470.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471', None, None, 'Automatic data processing machines and units\nthereof; magnetic or optical readers, machines for\ntranscribing data onto data media in coded form\nand machines for processing such data, not\nelsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['8471.30', None, None, '-Portable automatic data processing machines,\nweighing not more than 10 kg, consisting of at least a\ncentral processing unit, a keyboard and a display', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.4', None, None, '-Other automatic data processing machines:', '', None, None], ['8471.41', None, None, '--Comprising in the same housing at least a central\nprocessing unit and an input and output unit, whether\nor not combined', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.49', None, None, '--Other, presented in the form of systems', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.50', None, None, '-Processing units other than those of sub-heading', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '8471.41 or 8471.49, whether or not containing in the\nsame housing one or two of the following types of\nunit : storage units, input units, output units', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.60', None, None, '-Input or output units, whether or not containing\nstorage units in the same housing', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.70', None, None, '-Storage units', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.80', None, None, '-Other units of automatic data processing machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8471.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8472', None, None, 'Other office machines (for example, hectograph or\nstencil duplicating machines, addressing\nmachines, automatic banknote dispensers, coin-\nsorting machines, coin-counting or wrapping\nmachines, pencil-sharpening machines,\nperforating or stapling machines).', '', None, None], ['8472.10', None, None, '-Duplicating machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8472.30', None, None, '-Machines for sorting or folding mail or for inserting\nmail in envelopes or bands, machines for opening,\nclosing or sealing mail and machines for affixing or\ncancelling postage stamps', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8472.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8473', None, None, 'Parts and accessories (other than covers, carrying\ncases and the like) suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with machines of headings 84.70 to\n84.72.', '', None, None], ['8473.2', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of the machines of heading\n84.70:', '', None, None], ['8473.21', None, None, '--Of the electronic calculating machines of\nsubheading 8470.10, 8470.21 or 8470.29', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8473.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8473.30', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of the machines of heading\n84.71', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8473.40', None, None, '-Parts and accessories of the machines of heading\n84.72', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8473.50', None, None, '- Parts and accessories equally suitable for use with\nthe machines of two or more of the headings 84.70 to\n84.72', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474', None, None, 'Machinery for sorting, screening, separating,\nwashing, crushing, grinding, mixing or kneading\nearth, stone, ores or other mineral substances, in\nsolid (including powder or paste) form; machinery\nfor agglomerating, shaping or moulding solid\nmineral fuels, ceramic paste, unhardened cements,\nplastering materials or other mineral products in\npowder or paste form; machines for forming\nfoundry moulds of sand.', '', None, None], ['8474.10', None, None, '-Sorting, screening, separating or washing machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.20', None, None, '-Crushing or grinding machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.3', None, None, '-Mixing or kneading machines:', '', None, None], ['8474.31', None, None, '--Concrete or mortar mixers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.32', None, None, '--Machines for mixing mineral substances with\nbitumen', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8474.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8475', None, None, 'Machines for assembling electric or electronic\nlamps, tubes or valves or flashbulbs, in glass\nenvelopes; machines for manufacturing or hot\nworking glass or glassware.', '', None, None], ['8475.10', None, None, '-Machines for assembling electric or electronic\nlamps, tubes or valves or flashbulbs, in glass\nenvelopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8475.2', None, None, '-Machines for manufacturing or hot working glass\nor glassware:', '', None, None], ['8475.21', None, None, '--Machines for making optical fibres and preforms\nthereof', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8475.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8475.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8476', None, None, 'Automatic goods-vending machines (for example,\npostage stamp, cigarette, food or beverage\nmachines), including money-changing machines.', '', None, None], ['8476.2', None, None, '-Automatic beverage-vending machines:', '', None, None], ['8476.21', None, None, '--Incorporating heating or refrigerating devices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8476.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8476.8', None, None, '-Other machines:', '', None, None], ['8476.81', None, None, '--Incorporating heating or refrigerating devices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8476.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8476.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477', None, None, 'Machinery for working rubber or plastics or for\nthe manufacture of products from these materials,\nnot specified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', None, None], ['8477.10', None, None, '-Injection-moulding machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.20', None, None, '-Extruders', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.30', None, None, '-Blow moulding machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.40', None, None, '-Vacuum moulding machines and other\nthermoforming machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.5', None, None, '-Other machinery for moulding or otherwise\nforming:', '', None, None], ['8477.51', None, None, '--For moulding or retreading pneumatic tyres or for\nmoulding or otherwise forming inner tubes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.80', None, None, '-Other machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8477.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8478', None, None, 'Machinery for preparing or making up tobacco,\nnot specified or included elsewhere in this\nChapter.', '', None, None], ['8478.10', None, None, '-Machinery', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8478.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479', None, None, 'Machines and mechanical appliances having\nindividual functions, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['8479.10', None, None, '-Machinery for public works, building or the like', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.20', None, None, '-Machinery for the extraction or preparation of\nanimal or fixed vegetable fats or oils', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.30', None, None, '-Presses for the manufacture of particle board or fibre\nbuilding board of wood or other ligneous materials\nand other machinery for treating wood or cork', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.40', None, None, '-Rope or cable-making machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.50', None, None, '-Industrial robots, not elsewhere specified or included', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.60', None, None, '-Evaporative air coolers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.7', None, None, '-Passenger boarding bridges:', '', None, None], ['8479.71', None, None, '--Of a kind used in airports', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.8', None, None, '-Other machines and mechanical appliances:', '', None, None], ['8479.81', None, None, '--For treating metal, including electric wire coil-\nwinders', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.82', None, None, '--Mixing, kneading, crushing, grinding, screening,\nsifting, homogenising, emulsifying or stirring\nmachines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8479.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480', None, None, 'Moulding boxes for metal foundry; mould bases;\nmoulding patterns; moulds for metal (other than\ningot moulds), metal carbides, glass, mineral\nmaterials, rubber or plastics.', '', None, None], ['8480.10', None, None, '-Moulding boxes for metal foundry', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.20', None, None, '-Mould bases', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.30', None, None, '-Moulding patterns', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.4', None, None, '-Moulds for metal or metal carbides:', '', None, None], ['8480.41', None, None, '--Injection or compression types', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.50', None, None, '-Moulds for glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.60', None, None, '-Moulds for mineral materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.7', None, None, '-Moulds for rubber or plastics:', '', None, None], ['8480.71', None, None, '--Injection or compression types', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8480.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481', None, None, 'Taps, cocks, valves and similar appliances for\npipes, boiler shells, tanks, vats or the like,\nincluding pressure-reducing valves and\nthermostatically controlled valves.', '', None, None], ['8481.10', None, None, '-Pressure-reducing valves', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481.20', None, None, '-Valves for oleohydraulic or pneumatic transmissions', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481.30', None, None, '-Check (nonreturn) valves', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481.40', None, None, '-Safety or relief valves', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481.80', None, None, '-Other appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8481.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482', None, None, 'Ball or roller bearings.', '', None, None], ['8482.10', None, None, '-Ball bearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.20', None, None, '-Tapered roller bearings, including cone and tapered\nroller assemblies', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.30', None, None, '-Spherical roller bearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.40', None, None, '-Needle roller bearings', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.50', None, None, '-Other cylindrical roller bearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.80', None, None, '-Other, including combined ball/roller bearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8482.91', None, None, '--Balls, needles and rollers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8482.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483', None, None, 'Transmission shafts (including cam shafts and\ncrank shafts) and cranks; bearing housings and\nplain shaft bearings; gears and gearing; ball or\nroller screws; gear boxes and other speed\nchangers, including torque converters; flywheels\nand pulleys, including pulley blocks; clutches and\nshaft couplings (including universal joints).', '', None, None], ['8483.10', None, None, '-Transmission shafts (including cam shafts and crank\nshafts) and cranks', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.20', None, None, '-Bearing housings, incorporating ball or roller\nbearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.30', None, None, '-Bearing housings, not incorporating ball or roller\nbearings; plain shaft bearings', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.40', None, None, '-Gears and gearing, other than toothed wheels, chain\nsprockets and other transmission elements presented\nseparately; ball or roller screws; gear boxes and other\nspeed changers, including torque converters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.50', None, None, '-Flywheels and pulleys, including pulley blocks', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.60', None, None, '-Clutches and shaft couplings (including universal\njoints)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8483.90', None, None, '-Toothed wheels, chain sprockets and other\ntransmission elements presented separately; parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8484', None, None, 'Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting\ncombined with other material or of two or more\nlayers of metal; sets or assortments of gaskets and\nsimilar joints, dissimilar in composition, put up in\npouches, envelopes or similar packings;\nmechanical seals.', '', None, None], ['8484.10', None, None, '-Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting\ncombined with other material or of two or more\nlayers of metal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8484.20', None, None, '-Mechanical seals', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8484.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8486', None, None, 'Machines and apparatus of a kind used solely or\nprincipally for the manufacture of semiconductor\nboules or wafers, semiconductor devices,\nelectronic integrated circuits or flat panel\ndisplays; machines and apparatus specified in', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'Note 9 (C) to this Chapter; parts and accessories.', '', None, None], ['8486.10', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of\nboules or wafers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8486.20', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of\nsemiconductor devices or of electronic integrated\ncircuits', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8486.30', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for the manufacture of flat\npanel displays', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8486.40', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus specified in Note 9 (C) to\nthis Chapter', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8486.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8487', None, None, 'Machinery parts, not containing electrical\nconnectors, insulators, coils, contacts or other\nelectrical features, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['8487.10', None, None, "-Ships' or boats' propellers and blades therefor", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8487.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 85', None, None, 'Electrical Machinery and Equipment and Parts\nThereof; Sound Recorders and Reproducers,\nTelevision Image and Sound Recorders and\nReproducers, and Parts and Accessories of Such\nArticles', '', None, None], ['8501', None, None, 'Electric motors and generators (excluding\ngenerating sets).', '', None, None], ['8501.10', None, None, '-Motors of an output not exceeding 37.5 W', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.20', None, None, '-Universal AC/DC motors of an output exceeding\n37.5 W', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.3', None, None, '-Other DC motors; DC generators:', '', None, None], ['8501.31', None, None, '--Of an output not exceeding 750 W', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.32', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding\n75 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.33', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 75 kW but not exceeding\n375 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.34', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 375 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.40', None, None, '-Other AC motors, single-phase', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.5', None, None, '-Other AC motors, multi-phase:', '', None, None], ['8501.51', None, None, '--Of an output not exceeding 750 W', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.52', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 750 W but not exceeding\n75 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.53', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 75 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.6', None, None, '-AC generators(alternators):', '', None, None], ['8501.61', None, None, '--Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.62', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not exceeding\n375 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.63', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 375 kVA but not exceeding\n750 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8501.64', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 750 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502', None, None, 'Electric generating sets and rotary converters.', '', None, None], ['8502.1', None, None, '-Generating sets with compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engines(diesel or semi-\ndiesel engines ):', '', None, None], ['8502.11', None, None, '--Of an output not exceeding 75 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.12', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 75 kVA but not exceeding\n375 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.13', None, None, '--Of an output exceeding 375 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.20', None, None, '-Generating sets with spark-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.3', None, None, '-Other generating sets:', '', None, None], ['8502.31', None, None, '--Wind-powered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8502.40', None, None, '-Electric rotary converters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8503', None, None, 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\nmachines of heading 85.01 or 85.02.', '', None, None], ['8503.00', None, None, '-Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\nmachines of heading 85.01 or 85.02.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504', None, None, 'Electrical transformers, static converters (for\nexample, rectifiers) and inductors.', '', None, None], ['8504.10', None, None, '-Ballasts for discharge lamps or tubes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.2', None, None, '-Liquid dielectric transformers:', '', None, None], ['8504.21', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity not exceeding\n650 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.22', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity exceeding 650\nkVA but not exceeding 10,000 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.23', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity exceeding\n10,000 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.3', None, None, '-Other transformers:', '', None, None], ['8504.31', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity not exceeding 1\nkVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.32', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity exceeding 1\nkVA but not exceeding 16 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.33', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity exceeding 16\nkVA but not exceeding 500 kVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.34', None, None, '--Having a power handling capacity exceeding 500\nkVA', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.40', None, None, '-Static converters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.50', None, None, '-Other inductors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8504.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8505', None, None, 'Electro-magnets; permanent magnets and articles\nintended to become permanent magnets after\nmagnetisation; electro-magnetic or permanent\nmagnet chucks, clamps and similar holding\ndevices; electro-magnetic couplings, clutches and\nbrakes; electro-magnetic lifting heads.', '', None, None], ['8505.1', None, None, '-Permanent magnets and articles intended to\nbecome permanent magnets after magnetisation:', '', None, None], ['8505.11', None, None, '--Of metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8505.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8505.20', None, None, '-Electro-magnetic couplings, clutches and brakes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8505.90', None, None, '-Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506', None, None, 'Primary cells and primary batteries.', '', None, None], ['8506.10', None, None, '-Manganese dioxide', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.30', None, None, '-Mercuric oxide', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.40', None, None, '-Silver oxide', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.50', None, None, '-Lithium', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.60', None, None, '-Air-zinc', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.80', None, None, '-Other primary cells and primary batteries', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8506.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507', None, None, 'Electric accumulators, including separators\ntherefor, whether or not rectangular (including\nsquare).', '', None, None], ['8507.10', None, None, '-Lead-acid, of a kind used for starting piston engines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.20', None, None, '-Other lead-acid accumulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.30', None, None, '-Nickel-cadmium', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.40', None, None, '-Nickel-iron', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.50', None, None, '-Nickel-metal hydride', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.60', None, None, '-Lithium-ion', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.80', None, None, '-Other accumulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8507.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8508', None, None, 'Vacuum cleaners.', '', None, None], ['8508.1', None, None, '-With self-contained electric motor:', '', None, None], ['8508.11', None, None, '--Of a power not exceeding 1,500 W and having a\ndust bag or other receptacle capacity not exceeding\n20 ℓ', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8508.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8508.60', None, None, '-Other vacuum cleaners', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8508.70', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8509', None, None, 'Electro-mechanical domestic appliances, with self-\ncontained electric motor, other than vacuum\ncleaners of heading 85.08.', '', None, None], ['8509.40', None, None, '-Food grinders and mixers; fruit or vegetable juice\nextractors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8509.80', None, None, '-Other appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8509.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8510', None, None, 'Shavers, hair clippers and hair-removing\nappliances, with self-contained electric motor.', '', None, None], ['8510.10', None, None, '-Shavers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8510.20', None, None, '-Hair clippers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8510.30', None, None, '-Hair-removing appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8510.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511', None, None, 'Electrical ignition or starting equipment of a kind\nused for spark-ignition or compression-ignition\ninternal combustion engines (for example, ignition\nmagnetos, magneto-dynamos, ignition coils,\nsparking plugs and glow plugs, starter motors);\ngenerators (for example, dynamos, alternators)\nand cut-outs of a kind used in conjunction with\nsuch engines.', '', None, None], ['8511.10', None, None, '-Sparking plugs', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.20', None, None, '-Ignition magnetos; magneto-dynamos; magnetic\nflywheels', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.30', None, None, '-Distributors; ignition coils', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.40', None, None, '-Starter motors and dual purpose starter-generators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.50', None, None, '-Other generators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.80', None, None, '-Other equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8511.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8512', None, None, 'Electrical lighting or signalling equipment\n(excluding articles of heading 85.39), windscreen\nwipers, defrosters and demisters, of a kind used\nfor cycles or motor vehicles.', '', None, None], ['8512.10', None, None, '-Lighting or visual signalling equipment of a kind\nused on bicycles', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8512.20', None, None, '-Other lighting or visual signalling equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8512.30', None, None, '-Sound signalling equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8512.40', None, None, '-Windscreen wipers, defrosters and demisters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8512.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8513', None, None, 'Portable electric lamps designed to function by\ntheir own source of energy (for example, dry\nbatteries, accumulators, magnetos), other than\nlighting equipment of heading 85.12.', '', None, None], ['8513.10', None, None, '-Lamps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8513.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8514', None, None, 'Industrial or laboratory electric furnaces and\novens (including those functioning by induction or\ndielectric loss); other industrial or laboratory\nequipment for the heat treatment of materials by\ninduction or dielectric loss.', '', None, None], ['8514.10', None, None, '-Resistance heated furnaces and ovens', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8514.20', None, None, '-Furnaces and ovens functioning by induction or\ndielectric loss', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8514.30', None, None, '-Other furnaces and ovens', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8514.40', None, None, '-Other equipment for the heat treatment of materials\nby induction or dielectric loss', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8514.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515', None, None, 'Electric (including electrically heated gas), laser\nor other light or photon beam, ultrasonic, electron\nbeam, magnetic pulse or plasma arc soldering,\nbrazing or welding machines and apparatus,\nwhether or not capable of cutting; electric\nmachines and apparatus for hot spraying of\nmetals or cermets.', '', None, None], ['8515.1', None, None, '-Brazing or soldering machine and apparatus:', '', None, None], ['8515.11', None, None, '--Soldering irons and guns', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.2', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for resistance welding of\nmetal:', '', None, None], ['8515.21', None, None, '--Fully or partly automatic', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.3', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for arc(including\nplasma arc) welding of metals:', '', None, None], ['8515.31', None, None, '--Fully or partly automatic', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.80', None, None, '-Other machines and apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8515.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516', None, None, 'Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters\nand immersion heaters; electric space heating\napparatus and soil heating apparatus; electro-\nthermic hair-dressing apparatus (for example,\nhair dryers, hair curlers, curling tong heaters) and\nhand dryers; electric smoothing irons; other\nelectro-thermic appliances of a kind used for\ndomestic purposes; electric heating resistors, other\nthan those of heading 85.45.', '', None, None], ['8516.10', None, None, '-Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and\nimmersion heaters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.2', None, None, '-Electric space heating apparatus and electric soil\nheating apparatus:', '', None, None], ['8516.21', None, None, '--Storage heating radiators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.3', None, None, '-Electro-thermic hair-dressing of hand-drying\napparatus:', '', None, None], ['8516.31', None, None, '--Hair dryers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.32', None, None, '--Other hair-dressing apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.33', None, None, '--Hand-drying apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.40', None, None, '-Electric smoothing irons', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.50', None, None, '-Microwave ovens', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.60', None, None, '-Other ovens; cookers, cooking plates, boiling rings,\ngrillers and roasters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.7', None, None, '-Other electro-thermic appliances:', '', None, None], ['8516.71', None, None, '--Coffee or tea makers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.72', None, None, '--Toasters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.80', None, None, '-Electric heating resistors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8516.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517', None, None, 'Telephone sets, including telephones for cellular\nnetworks or for other wireless networks; other\napparatus for the transmission or reception of\nvoice, images or other data, including apparatus\nfor communication in a wired or wireless network\n(such as a local or wide area network), other than\ntransmission or reception apparatus of heading\n84.43, 85.25, 85.27 or 85.28.', '', None, None], ['8517.1', None, None, '-Telephone sets, including telephones for cellular\nnetworks or for other wireless networks:', '', None, None], ['8517.11', None, None, '--Line telephone sets with cordless handsets', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.12', None, None, '--Telephones for cellular networks or for other\nwireless networks', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.18', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.6', None, None, '-Other apparatus for transmission or reception of\nvoice, images or other data, including apparatus\nfor communication in a wired or wireless network\n(such as a local or wide area network):', '', None, None], ['8517.61', None, None, '--Base stations', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.62', None, None, '--Machines for the reception, conversion and\ntransmission or regeneration of voice, images or other\ndata, including switching and routing apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8517.70', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518', None, None, 'Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers,\nwhether or not mounted in their enclosures;\nheadphones and earphones, whether or not\ncombined with a microphone, and sets consisting\nof a microphone and one or more loudspeakers;\naudio-frequency electric amplifiers; electric sound\namplifier sets.', '', None, None], ['8518.10', None, None, '-Microphones and stands therefor', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.2', None, None, '-Loudspeakers, whether or not mounted in their\nenclosures:', '', None, None], ['8518.21', None, None, '--Single loudspeakers, mounted in their enclosures', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.22', None, None, '--Multiple loudspeakers, mounted in the same\nenclosure', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.30', None, None, '-Headphones and earphones, whether or not\ncombined with a microphone, and sets consisting of a\nmicrophone and one or more loudspeakers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.40', None, None, '-Audio-frequency electric amplifiers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.50', None, None, '-Electric sound amplifier sets', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8518.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8519', None, None, 'Sound recording or reproducing apparatus.', '', None, None], ['8519.20', None, None, '-Apparatus operated by coins, banknotes, bank cards,\ntokens or by other means of payment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8519.30', None, None, '-Turntables (record-decks)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8519.50', None, None, '-Telephone answering machines', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8519.8', None, None, '-Other apparatus:', '', None, None], ['8519.81', None, None, '--Using magnetic, optical or semiconductor media', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8519.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8521', None, None, 'Video recording or reproducing apparatus,\nwhether or not incorporating a video tuner.', '', None, None], ['8521.10', None, None, '-Magnetic tape-type', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8521.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8522', None, None, 'Parts and accessories suitable for use solely or\nprincipally with the apparatus of headings 85.19\nor 85.21.', '', None, None], ['8522.10', None, None, '-Pick-up cartridges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8522.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523', None, None, '--Discs, tapes, solid-state non-volatile storage\ndevices, “smart cards” and other media for the\nrecording of sound or of other phenomena,\nwhether or not recorded, including matrices and\nmasters for the production of discs, but excluding\nproducts of Chapter 37.', '', None, None], ['8523.2', None, None, '-Magnetic media:', '', None, None], ['8523.21', None, None, '--Cards incorporating a magnetic stripe', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.4', None, None, '-Optical media:', '', None, None], ['8523.41', None, None, '--Unrecorded', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.5', None, None, '-Semiconductor media:', '', None, None], ['8523.51', None, None, '--Solid-state non-volatile storage devices', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.52', None, None, '--“Smart cards”', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8523.80', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8525', None, None, 'Transmission apparatus for radio-broadcasting or\ntelevision, whether or not incorporating reception\napparatus or sound recording or reproducing\napparatus; television cameras, digital cameras and\nvideo camera recorders.', '', None, None], ['8525.50', None, None, '-Transmission apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8525.60', None, None, '-Transmission apparatus incorporating reception\napparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8525.80', None, None, '-Television cameras, digital cameras and video\ncamera recorders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8526', None, None, 'Radar apparatus, radio navigational aid\napparatus and radio remote control apparatus.', '', None, None], ['8526.10', None, None, '-Radar apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8526.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8526.91', None, None, '--Radio navigational aid apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8526.92', None, None, '--Radio remote control apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527', None, None, 'Reception apparatus for radio-broadcasting,\nwhether or not combined, in the same housing,\nwith sound recording or reproducing apparatus or\na clock.', '', None, None], ['8527.1', None, None, '-Radio-broadcast receivers capable of operating\nwithout an external source of power:', '', None, None], ['8527.12', None, None, '--Pocket-size radio cassette-players', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.13', None, None, '--Other apparatus, combined with sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.2', None, None, '-Radio-broadcast receivers not capable of\noperating without an external source of power, of\na kind used in motor vehicles:', '', None, None], ['8527.21', None, None, '--Combined with sound recording or reproducing\napparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8527.91', None, None, '--Combined with sound recording or reproducing\napparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.92', None, None, '--Not combined with sound recording or reproducing\napparatus but combined with a clock', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8527.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528', None, None, 'Monitors and projectors, not incorporating\ntelevision reception apparatus; reception\napparatus for television, whether or not\nincorporating radio-broadcast receivers or sound\nor video recording or reproducing apparatus.', '', None, None], ['8528.4', None, None, '-Cathode-ray tube monitors:', '', None, None], ['8528.42', None, None, '--Capable of directly connecting to and designed for\nuse with an automatic data processing machine of\nheading 84.71', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.5', None, None, '-Other monitors:', '', None, None], ['8528.52', None, None, '--Capable of directly connecting to and designed for\nuse with an automatic data processing machine of\nheading 84.71', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.6', None, None, '-Projectors:', '', None, None], ['8528.62', None, None, '--Capable of directly connecting to and designed for\nuse with an automatic data processing machine of\nheading 84.71', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.7', None, None, '-Reception apparatus for television, whether or\nnot incorporating radio-broadcast receivers or\nsound or video recording or reproducing\napparatus:', '', None, None], ['8528.71', None, None, '--Not designed to incorporate a video display or\nscreen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.72', None, None, '--Other, colour', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8528.73', None, None, '--Other, monochrome', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8529', None, None, 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\napparatus of headings 85.25 to 85.28.', '', None, None], ['8529.10', None, None, '-Aerials and aerial reflectors of all kinds; parts\nsuitable for use therewith', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8529.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8530', None, None, 'Electrical signalling, safety or traffic control\nequipment for railways, tramways, roads, inland\nwaterways, parking facilities, port installations or', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'airfields (other than those of heading 86.08).', '', None, None], ['8530.10', None, None, '-Equipment for railways or tramways', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8530.80', None, None, '-Other equipment', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8530.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8531', None, None, 'Electric sound or visual signalling apparatus (for\nexample, bells, sirens, indicator panels, burglar or\nfire alarms), other than those of heading 85.12 or\n85.30.', '', None, None], ['8531.10', None, None, '-Burglar or fire alarms and similar apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8531.20', None, None, '-Indicator panels incorporating liquid crystal devices\n(LCD) or light-emitting diodes (LED)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8531.80', None, None, '-Other apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8531.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532', None, None, 'Electrical capacitors, fixed, variable or adjustable\n(pre-set).', '', None, None], ['8532.10', None, None, '-Fixed capacitors designed for use in 50/60 Hz\ncircuits and having a reactive power handling\ncapacity of not less than 0.5 kvar (power capacitors)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.2', None, None, '-Other fixed capacitors:', '', None, None], ['8532.21', None, None, '--Tantalum', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.22', None, None, '--Aluminium electrolytic', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.23', None, None, '--Ceramic dielectric, single layer', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.24', None, None, '--Ceramic dielectric, multilayer', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.25', None, None, '--Dielectric of paper or plastics', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.30', None, None, '-Variable or adjustable (pre-set) capacitors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8532.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533', None, None, 'Electrical resistors (including rheostats and\npotentiometers), other than heating resistors.', '', None, None], ['8533.10', None, None, '-Fixed carbon resistors, composition or film types', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.2', None, None, '-Other fixed resistors:', '', None, None], ['8533.21', None, None, '--For a power handling capacity not exceeding 20 W', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.3', None, None, '-Wirewound variable resistors, including', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'rheostats and potentiometers:', '', None, None], ['8533.31', None, None, '--For a power handling capacity not exceeding 20 W', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.40', None, None, '-Other variable resistors, including rheostats and\npotentiometers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8533.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8534', None, None, 'Printed circuits.', '', None, None], ['8534.00', None, None, '-Printed circuits.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535', None, None, 'Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting\nelectrical circuits, or for making connections to or\nin electrical circuits (for example, switches, fuses,\nlightning arresters, voltage limiters, surge\nsuppressors, plugs and other connectors, junction\nboxes), for a voltage exceeding 1,000 volts.', '', None, None], ['8535.10', None, None, '-Fuses', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535.2', None, None, '-Automatic circuit breakers:', '', None, None], ['8535.21', None, None, '--For a voltage of less than 72.5 kV', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535.30', None, None, '-Isolating switches and make-and-break switches', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535.40', None, None, '-Lightning arresters, voltage limiters and surge\nsuppressors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8535.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536', None, None, 'Electrical apparatus for switching or protecting\nelectrical circuits, or for making connections to or\nin electrical circuits (for example, switches, relays,\nfuses, surge suppressors, plugs, sockets, lamp-\nholders and other connectors, junction boxes), for\na voltage not exceeding 1,000 volts; connectors for\noptical fibres, optical fibre bundles or cables.', '', None, None], ['8536.10', None, None, '-Fuses', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.20', None, None, '-Automatic circuit breakers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.30', None, None, '-Other apparatus for protecting electrical circuits', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.4', None, None, '-Relays:', '', None, None], ['8536.41', None, None, '--For a voltage not exceeding 60 V', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.50', None, None, '-Other switches', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.6', None, None, '-Lamp-holders, plugs and sockets:', '', None, None], ['8536.61', None, None, '--Lamp-holders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.70', None, None, '-Connectors for optical fibres, optical fibre bundles or\ncables', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8536.90', None, None, '-Other apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8537', None, None, 'Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets and other\nbases, equipped with two or more apparatus of\nheading 85.35 or 85.36, for electric control or the\ndistribution of electricity, including those\nincorporating instruments or apparatus of\nChapter 90, and numerical control apparatus,\nother than switching apparatus of heading 85.17.', '', None, None], ['8537.10', None, None, '-For a voltage not exceeding 1,000 V', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8537.20', None, None, '-For a voltage exceeding 1,000 V', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8538', None, None, 'Parts suitable for use solely or principally with the\napparatus of heading 85.35, 85.36 or 85.37.', '', None, None], ['8538.10', None, None, '-Boards, panels, consoles, desks, cabinets and other\nbases for the goods of heading 85.37, not equipped\nwith their apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8538.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539', None, None, 'Electric filament or discharge lamps, including\nsealed beam lamp units and ultra-violet or infra-\nred lamps; arc-lamps; light-emitting diode (LED)\nlamps.', '', None, None], ['8539.10', None, None, '-Sealed beam lamp units', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.2', None, None, '-Other filament lamps, excluding ultra-violet or\ninfra-red lamps:', '', None, None], ['8539.21', None, None, '--Tungsten halogen', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.22', None, None, '--Other, of a power not exceeding 200 W and for a\nvoltage exceeding 100 V', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.3', None, None, '-Discharge lamps, other than ultra-violet lamps:', '', None, None], ['8539.31', None, None, '--Fluorescent, hot cathode', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.32', None, None, '--Mercury or sodium vapour lamps; metal halide\nlamps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.4', None, None, '-Ultra-violet or infra-red lamps; arc-lamps:', '', None, None], ['8539.41', None, None, '--Arc-lamps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.50', None, None, '-Light-emitting diode (LED) lamps', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8539.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540', None, None, 'Thermionic, cold cathode or photo-cathode valves\nand tubes (for example, vacuum or vapour or gas\nfilled valves and tubes, mercury arc rectifying\nvalves and tubes, cathode-ray tubes, television\ncamera tubes).', '', None, None], ['8540.1', None, None, '-Cathode-ray television picture tubes, including\nvideo monitor cathode-ray tubes:', '', None, None], ['8540.11', None, None, '--Colour', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.12', None, None, '--Monochrome', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.20', None, None, '-Television camera tubes; image converters and\nintensifiers; other photo-cathode tubes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.40', None, None, '-Data/graphic display tubes, monochrome;\ndata/graphic display tubes, colour, with a phosphor\ndot screen pitch smaller than 0.4 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.60', None, None, '-Other cathode-ray tubes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.7', None, None, '-Microwave tubes(for example, magnetrons,\nklystrons, travelling wave tubes, carcinotrons),\nexcluding grid-controlled tubes:', '', None, None], ['8540.71', None, None, '--Magnetrons', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.8', None, None, '-Other valves and tubes:', '', None, None], ['8540.81', None, None, '--Receiver or amplifier valves and tubes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['8540.91', None, None, '--Of cathode-ray tubes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8540.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541', None, None, 'Diodes, transistors and similar semiconductor\ndevices; photosensitive semiconductor devices,\nincluding photovoltaic cells whether or not\nassembled in modules or made up into panels;\nlight-emitting diodes (LED); mounted piezo-\nelectric crystals.', '', None, None], ['8541.10', None, None, '-Diodes, other than photosensitive or light-emitting\ndiodes (LED)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.2', None, None, '-Transistors, other than photosensitive\ntransistors:', '', None, None], ['8541.21', None, None, '--With a dissipation rate of less than 1 W', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.30', None, None, '-Thyristors, diacs and triacs, other than\nphotosensitive devices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.40', None, None, '-Photosensitive semiconductor devices, including\nphotovoltaic cells whether or not assembled in\nmodules or made up into panels; light-emitting\ndiodes (LED)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.50', None, None, '-Other semiconductor devices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.60', None, None, '-Mounted piezo-electric crystals', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8541.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8542', None, None, 'Electronic integrated circuits.', '', None, None], ['8542.3', None, None, '-Electronic integrated circuits:', '', None, None], ['8542.31', None, None, '--Processors and controllers, whether or not\ncombined with memories, converters, logic circuits,\namplifiers, clock and timing circuits, or other circuits', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8542.32', None, None, '--Memories', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8542.33', None, None, '--Amplifiers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8542.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8542.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8543', None, None, 'Electrical machines and apparatus, having\nindividual functions, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['8543.10', None, None, '-Particle accelerators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8543.20', None, None, '-Signal generators', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8543.30', None, None, '-Machines and apparatus for electroplating,\nelectrolysis or electrophoresis', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8543.70', None, None, '-Other machines and apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8543.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544', None, None, 'Insulated (including enamelled or anodised) wire,\ncable (including co-axial cable) and other\ninsulated electric conductors, whether or not fitted\nwith connectors; optical fibre cables, made up of\nindividually sheathed fibres, whether or not\nassembled with electric conductors or fitted with\nconnectors.', '', None, None], ['8544.1', None, None, '-Winding wire:', '', None, None], ['8544.11', None, None, '--Of copper', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.20', None, None, '-Co-axial cable and other co-axial electric conductors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.30', None, None, '-Ignition wiring sets and other wiring sets of a kind\nused in vehicles, aircraft or ships', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.4', None, None, '-Other electric conductors, for a voltage not\nexceeding 1,000 V:', '', None, None], ['8544.42', None, None, '--Fitted with connectors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.60', None, None, '-Other electric conductors, for a voltage exceeding\n1,000 V', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8544.70', None, None, '-Optical fibre cables', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8545', None, None, 'Carbon electrodes, carbon brushes, lamp carbons,\nbattery carbons and other articles of graphite or\nother carbon, with or without metal, of a kind\nused for electrical purposes.', '', None, None], ['8545.1', None, None, '-Electrodes:', '', None, None], ['8545.11', None, None, '--Of a kind used for furnaces', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8545.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8545.20', None, None, '-Brushes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8545.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8546', None, None, 'Electrical insulators of any material.', '', None, None], ['8546.10', None, None, '-Of glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8546.20', None, None, '-Of ceramics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8546.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8547', None, None, 'Insulating fittings for electrical machines,\nappliances or equipment, being fittings wholly of\ninsulating material apart from any minor\ncomponents of metal (for example, threaded\nsockets) incorporated during moulding solely for\npurposes of assembly, other than insulators of\nheading 85.46; electrical conduit tubing and joints\ntherefor, of base metal lined with insulating\nmaterial.', '', None, None], ['8547.10', None, None, '-Insulating fittings of ceramics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8547.20', None, None, '-Insulating fittings of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8547.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8548', None, None, 'Waste and scrap of primary cells, primary\nbatteries and electric accumulators; spent\nprimary cells, spent primary batteries and spent\nelectric accumulators; electrical parts of\nmachinery or apparatus, not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['8548.10', None, None, '-Waste and scrap of primary cells, primary batteries\nand electric accumulators; spent primary cells, spent\nprimary batteries and spent electric accumulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8548.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XVII -VEHICLES, AIRCRAFT, VESSELS AND ASSOCIATED\nTRANSPORT EQUIPMENT', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 86', None, None, 'Railway or Tramway Locomotives, Rolling-stock\nand Parts Thereof; Railway or Tramway Track\nFixtures and Fittings and Parts Thereof;\nMechanical (Including Electro-mechanical)\nTraffic Signalling Equipment of All Kinds', '', None, None], ['8601', None, None, 'Rail locomotives powered from an external source\nof electricity or by electric accumulators.', '', None, None], ['8601.10', None, None, '-Powered from an external source of electricity', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8601.20', None, None, '-Powered by electric accumulators', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8602', None, None, 'Other rail locomotives; locomotive tenders.', '', None, None], ['8602.10', None, None, '-Diesel-electric locomotives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8602.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8603', None, None, 'Self-propelled railway or tramway coaches, vans\nand trucks, other than those of heading 86.04.', '', None, None], ['8603.10', None, None, '-Powered from an external source of electricity', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8603.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8604', None, None, 'Railway or tramway maintenance or service\nvehicles, whether or not self-propelled (for\nexample, workshops, cranes, ballast tampers,\ntrackliners, testing coaches and track inspection\nvehicles).', '', None, None], ['8604.00', None, None, '-Railway or tramway maintenance or service\nvehicles, whether or not self-propelled (for example,\nworkshops, cranes, ballast tampers, trackliners,\ntesting coaches and track inspection vehicles).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8605', None, None, 'Railway or tramway passenger coaches, not self-\npropelled; luggage vans, post office coaches and\nother special purpose railway or tramway\ncoaches, not self-propelled (excluding those of\nheading 86.04).', '', None, None], ['8605.00', None, None, '-Railway or tramway passenger coaches, not self-', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'propelled; luggage vans, post office coaches and\nother special purpose railway or tramway coaches,\nnot self-propelled (excluding those of heading 86.04).', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8606', None, None, 'Railway or tramway goods vans and wagons, not\nself-propelled.', '', None, None], ['8606.10', None, None, '-Tank wagons and the like', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8606.30', None, None, '-Self-discharging vans and wagons, other than those\nof subheading 8606.10', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8606.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8606.91', None, None, '--Covered and closed', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8606.92', None, None, '--Open, with non-removable sides of a height\nexceeding 60 cm', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8606.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607', None, None, 'Parts of railway or tramway locomotives or\nrolling-stock.', '', None, None], ['8607.1', None, None, '-Bogies, bissel-bogies, axles and wheels, and parts\nthereof:', '', None, None], ['8607.11', None, None, '--Driving bogies and bissel-bogies', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.12', None, None, '--Other bogies and bissel-bogies', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.19', None, None, '--Other, including parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.2', None, None, '-Brakes and parts thereof:', '', None, None], ['8607.21', None, None, '--Air brakes and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.30', None, None, '-Hooks and other coupling devices, buffers, and parts\nthereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8607.91', None, None, '--Of locomotives', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8607.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8608', None, None, 'Railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings;\nmechanical (including electro-mechanical)\nsignalling, safety or traffic control equipment for\nrailways, tramways, roads, inland waterways,\nparking facilities, port installations or airfields;\nparts of the foregoing.', '', None, None], ['8608.00', None, None, '-Railway or tramway track fixtures and fittings;\nmechanical (including electro-mechanical) signalling,\nsafety or traffic control equipment for railways,\ntramways, roads, inland waterways, parking facilities,\nport installations or airfields; parts of the foregoing.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8609', None, None, 'Containers (including containers for the transport\nof fluids) specially designed and equipped for', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'carriage by one or more modes of transport.', '', None, None], ['8609.00', None, None, '-Containers (including containers for the transport of\nfluids) specially designed and equipped for carriage\nby one or more modes of transport.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 87', None, None, 'Vehicles Other Than Railway or Tramway\nRolling-stock, and Parts and Accessories Thereof', '', None, None], ['8701', None, None, 'Tractors (other than tractors of heading 87.09).', '', None, None], ['8701.10', None, None, '-Single axle tractors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.20', None, None, '-Road tractors for semi-trailers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.30', None, None, '-Track-laying tractors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.9', None, None, '-Other, of an engine power:', '', None, None], ['8701.91', None, None, '--Not exceeding 18 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.92', None, None, '--Exceeding 18 kW but not exceeding 37 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.93', None, None, '--Exceeding 37 kW but not exceeding 75 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.94', None, None, '--Exceeding 75 kW but not exceeding 130 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8701.95', None, None, '--Exceeding 130 kW', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8702', None, None, 'Motor vehicles for the transport of ten or more\npersons, including the driver.', '', None, None], ['8702.10', None, None, '-With only compression-ignition internal combustion\npiston engine (diesel or semi-diesel)', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8702.20', None, None, '-With both compression-ignition internal combustion\npiston engine (diesel or semi-diesel) and electric\nmotor as motors for propulsion', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8702.30', None, None, '-With both spark-ignition internal combustion\nreciprocating piston engine and electric motor as\nmotors for propulsion', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8702.40', None, None, '-With only electric motor for propulsion', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8702.90', None, None, '-Other', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703', None, None, 'Motor cars and other motor vehicles principally\ndesigned for the transport of persons (other than\nthose of heading 87.02), including station wagons\nand racing cars.', '', None, None], ['8703.10', None, None, '-Vehicles specially designed for travelling on snow;\ngolf cars and similar vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.2', None, None, '-Other vehicles, with only spark-ignition internal\ncombustion reciprocating piston engine:', '', None, None], ['8703.21', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,000 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.22', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,000 cc but not\nexceeding 1,500 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.23', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not\nexceeding 3,000 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.24', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 3,000 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.3', None, None, '-Other vehicles, with only compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel):', '', None, None], ['8703.31', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 1,500 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.32', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1,500 cc but not\nexceeding 2,500 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.33', None, None, '--Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 2,500 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.40', None, None, '-Other vehicles, with both spark-ignition internal\ncombustion reciprocating piston engine and electric\nmotor as motors for propulsion, other than those\ncapable of being charged by plugging to external\nsource of electric power', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.50', None, None, '- Other vehicles, with both compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel) and electric motor as motors for propulsion,\nother than those capable of being charged by\nplugging to external source of electric power', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.60', None, None, '-Other vehicles, with both spark-ignition internal\ncombustion reciprocating piston engine and electric\nmotor as motors for propulsion, capable of being\ncharged by plugging to external source of electric\npower', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.70', None, None, '- Other vehicles, with both compression-ignition\ninternal combustion piston engine (diesel or semi-\ndiesel) and electric motor as motors for propulsion,\ncapable of being charged by plugging to external\nsource of electric power', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.80', None, None, '-Other vehicles, with only electric motor for\npropulsion', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8703.90', None, None, '-Other', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704', None, None, 'Motor vehicles for the transport of goods.', '', None, None], ['8704.10', None, None, '-Dumpers designed for off-highway use', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.2', None, None, '-Other, with compression-ignition internal\ncombustion piston engine (diesel or semi-diesel):', '', None, None], ['8704.21', None, None, '--G.V.W. not exceeding 5 tonnes', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.22', None, None, '-- G.V.W. exceeding 5 tonnes but not exceeding 20\ntonnes', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.23', None, None, '-- G.V.W. exceeding 20 tonnes', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.3', None, None, '-Other, with spark-ignition internal combustion\npiston engine:', '', None, None], ['8704.31', None, None, '-- G.V.W. not exceeding 5 tonnes', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.32', None, None, '-- G.V.W. exceeding 5 tonnes', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8704.90', None, None, '-Other', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8705', None, None, 'Special purpose motor vehicles, other than those\nprincipally designed for the transport of persons\nor goods (for example, breakdown lorries, crane\nlorries, fire fighting vehicles, concrete-mixer\nlorries, road sweeper lorries, spraying lorries,\nmobile workshops, mobile radiological units).', '', None, None], ['8705.10', None, None, '-Crane lorries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8705.20', None, None, '-Mobile drilling derricks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8705.30', None, None, '-Fire fighting vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8705.40', None, None, '-Concrete-mixer lorries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8705.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8706', None, None, 'Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles\nof headings 87.01 to 87.05.', '', None, None], ['8706.00', None, None, '-Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles of\nheadings 87.01 to 87.05.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8707', None, None, 'Bodies (including cabs), for the motor vehicles of\nheadings 87.01 to 87.05.', '', None, None], ['8707.10', None, None, '-For the vehicles of heading 87.03', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8707.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708', None, None, 'Parts and accessories of the motor vehicles of\nheadings 87.01 to 87.05.', '', None, None], ['8708.10', None, None, '-Bumpers and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.2', None, None, '-Other parts and accessories of bodies (including\ncabs):', '', None, None], ['8708.21', None, None, '--Safety seat belts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.30', None, None, '-Brakes and servo-brakes; parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.40', None, None, '-Gear boxes and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.50', None, None, '-Drive-axles with differential, whether or not\nprovided with other transmission components, and\nnon-driving axles; parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.70', None, None, '-Road wheels and parts and accessories thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.80', None, None, '-Suspension systems and parts thereof (including\nshock-absorbers)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.9', None, None, '-Other parts and accessories:', '', None, None], ['8708.91', None, None, '--Radiators and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.92', None, None, '--Silencers (mufflers) and exhaust pipes; parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.93', None, None, '--Clutches and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.94', None, None, '--Steering wheels, steering columns and steering\nboxes; parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.95', None, None, '--Safety airbags with inflater system; parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8708.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8709', None, None, 'Works trucks, self-propelled, not fitted with lifting\nor handling equipment, of the type used in\nfactories, warehouses, dock areas or airports for\nshort distance transport of goods; tractors of the\ntype used on railway station platforms; parts of\nthe foregoing vehicles.', '', None, None], ['8709.1', None, None, '-Vehicles:', '', None, None], ['8709.11', None, None, '--Electrical', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8709.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8709.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8710', None, None, 'Tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles,\nmotorised, whether or not fitted with weapons,\nand parts of such vehicles.', '', None, None], ['8710.00', None, None, '-Tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles,\nmotorised, whether or not fitted with weapons, and\nparts of such vehicles.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711', None, None, 'Motorcycles (including mopeds) and cycles fitted\nwith an auxiliary motor, with or without side-cars;\nside-cars.', '', None, None], ['8711.10', None, None, '-With reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity not exceeding 50cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.20', None, None, '-With reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 50 cc but not\nexceeding 250 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.30', None, None, '-With reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 250 cc but\nnot exceeding 500 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.40', None, None, '-With reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 500 cc but\nnot exceeding 800 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.50', None, None, '-With reciprocating internal combustion piston\nengine of a cylinder capacity exceeding 800 cc', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.60', None, None, '-With electric motor for propulsion', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8711.90', None, None, '-Other', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8712', None, None, 'Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery\ntricycles), not motorized.', '', None, None], ['8712.00', None, None, '-Bicycles and other cycles (including delivery\ntricycles), not motorized.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8713', None, None, 'Carriages for disabled persons, whether or not\nmotorised or otherwise mechanically propelled.', '', None, None], ['8713.10', None, None, '-Not mechanically propelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8713.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714', None, None, 'Parts and accessories of vehicles of headings 87.11\nto 87.13.', '', None, None], ['8714.10', None, None, '-Of motorcycles (including mopeds)', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.20', None, None, '-Of carriages for disabled persons', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8714.91', None, None, '--Frames and forks, and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.92', None, None, '--Wheel rims and spokes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.93', None, None, '--Hubs, other than coaster braking hubs and hub\nbrakes, and free-wheel sprocket-wheels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.94', None, None, '--Brakes, including coaster braking hubs and hub\nbrakes, and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.95', None, None, '--Saddles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.96', None, None, '--Pedals and crank-gear, and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8714.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8715', None, None, 'Baby carriages and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['8715.00', None, None, '-Baby carriages and parts thereof.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716', None, None, 'Trailers and semi-trailers; other vehicles, not\nmechanically propelled; parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['8716.10', None, None, '-Trailers and semi-trailers of the caravan type, for\nhousing or camping', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.20', None, None, '-Self-loading or self-unloading trailers and semi-\ntrailers for agricultural purposes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.3', None, None, '-Other trailers and semi-trailers for the transport\nof goods:', '', None, None], ['8716.31', None, None, '--Tanker trailers and tanker semi-trailers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.40', None, None, '-Other trailers and semi-trailers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.80', None, None, '-Other vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8716.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 88', None, None, 'Aircraft, Spacecraft, and Parts Thereof', '', None, None], ['8801', None, None, 'Balloons and dirigibles; gliders, hang gliders and\nother non-powered aircraft.', '', None, None], ['8801.00', None, None, '-Balloons and dirigibles; gliders, hang gliders and\nother non-powered aircraft.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802', None, None, 'Other aircraft (for example, helicopters,\naeroplanes); spacecraft (including satellites) and\nsuborbital and spacecraft launch vehicles.', '', None, None], ['8802.1', None, None, '-Helicopters:', '', None, None], ['8802.11', None, None, '--Of an unladen weight not exceeding 2,000 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802.12', None, None, '--Of an unladen weight exceeding 2,000 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802.20', None, None, '-Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an unladen weight\nnot exceeding 2,000 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802.30', None, None, '-Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an unladen weight\nexceeding 2,000 kg but not exceeding 15,000 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802.40', None, None, '-Aeroplanes and other aircraft, of an unladen weight\nexceeding 15,000 kg', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8802.60', None, None, '-Spacecraft (including satellites) and suborbital and\nspacecraft launch vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8803', None, None, 'Parts of goods of heading 88.01 or 88.02.', '', None, None], ['8803.10', None, None, '-Propellers and rotors and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8803.20', None, None, '-Under-carriages and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8803.30', None, None, '-Other parts of aeroplanes or helicopters', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8803.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8804', None, None, 'Parachutes (including dirigible parachutes and\nparagliders) and rotochutes; parts thereof and\naccessories thereto.', '', None, None], ['8804.00', None, None, '-Parachutes (including dirigible parachutes and\nparagliders) and rotochutes; parts thereof and\naccessories thereto.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8805', None, None, 'Aircraft launching gear; deck-arrestor or similar\ngear; ground flying trainers; parts of the\nforegoing articles.', '', None, None], ['8805.10', None, None, '-Aircraft launching gear and parts thereof; deck-\narrestor or similar gear and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8805.2', None, None, '-Ground flying trainers and parts thereof:', '', None, None], ['8805.21', None, None, '--Air combat simulators and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8805.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 89', None, None, 'Ships, Boats and Floating Structures', '', None, None], ['8901', None, None, 'Cruise ships, excursion boats, ferry-boats, cargo\nships, barges and similar vessels for the transport\nof persons or goods.', '', None, None], ['8901.10', None, None, '-Cruise ships, excursion boats and similar vessels\nprincipally designed for the transport of persons;\nferry-boats of all kinds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8901.20', None, None, '-Tankers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8901.30', None, None, '-Refrigerated vessels, other than those of subheading\n8901.20', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8901.90', None, None, '-Other vessels for the transport of goods and other\nvessels for the transport of both persons and goods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8902', None, None, 'Fishing vessels; factory ships and other vessels for\nprocessing or preserving fishery products.', '', None, None], ['8902.00', None, None, '-Fishing vessels; factory ships and other vessels for', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'processing or preserving fishery products.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8903', None, None, 'Yachts and other vessels for pleasure or sports;\nrowing boats and canoes.', '', None, None], ['8903.10', None, None, '-Inflatable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8903.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['8903.91', None, None, '--Sailboats, with or without auxiliary motor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8903.92', None, None, '--Motorboats, other than outboard motorboats', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8903.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8904', None, None, 'Tugs and pusher craft.', '', None, None], ['8904.00', None, None, '-Tugs and pusher craft.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8905', None, None, 'Light-vessels, fire-floats, dredgers, floating cranes,\nand other vessels the navigability of which is\nsubsidiary to their main function; floating docks;\nfloating or submersible drilling or production\nplatforms.', '', None, None], ['8905.10', None, None, '-Dredgers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8905.20', None, None, '-Floating or submersible drilling or production\nplatforms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8905.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8906', None, None, 'Other vessels, including warships and lifeboats\nother than rowing boats.', '', None, None], ['8906.10', None, None, '-Warships', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8906.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8907', None, None, 'Other floating structures (for example, rafts,\ntanks, coffer-dams, landing-stages, buoys and\nbeacons).', '', None, None], ['8907.10', None, None, '-Inflatable rafts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8907.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['8908', None, None, 'Vessels and other floating structures for breaking\nup.', '', None, None], ['8908.00', None, None, '-Vessels and other floating structures for breaking up.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XVIII -OPTICAL, PHOTOGRAPHIC, CINEMATOGRAPHIC,\nMEASURING, CHECKING, PRECISION, MEDICAL OR SURGICAL\nINSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS; CLOCKS AND WATCHES; MUSICAL\nINSTRUMENTS; PARTS AND ACCESSORIES THEREOF', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 90', None, None, 'Optical, Photographic, Cinematographic,\nMeasuring, Checking, Precision, Medical or\nSurgical Instruments and Apparatus; Parts and\nAccessories Thereof', '', None, None], ['9001', None, None, 'Optical fibres and optical fibre bundles; optical\nfibre cables other than those of heading 85.44;\nsheets and plates of polarising material; lenses\n(including contact lenses), prisms, mirrors and\nother optical elements, of any material,\nunmounted, other than such elements of glass not\noptically worked.', '', None, None], ['9001.10', None, None, '-Optical fibres, optical fibre bundles and cables', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9001.20', None, None, '-Sheets and plates of polarising material', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9001.30', None, None, '-Contact lenses', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9001.40', None, None, '-Spectacle lenses of glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9001.50', None, None, '-Spectacle lenses of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9001.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9002', None, None, 'Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical\nelements, of any material, mounted, being parts of\nor fittings for instruments or apparatus, other\nthan such elements of glass not optically worked.', '', None, None], ['9002.1', None, None, '-Objective lenses:', '', None, None], ['9002.11', None, None, '--For cameras, projectors or photographic enlargers\nor reducers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9002.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9002.20', None, None, '-Filters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9002.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9003', None, None, 'Frames and mountings for spectacles, goggles or\nthe like, and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9003.1', None, None, '-Frames and mountings:', '', None, None], ['9003.11', None, None, '--Of plastics', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9003.19', None, None, '--Of other materials', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9003.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9004', None, None, 'Spectacles, goggles and the like, corrective,\nprotective or other.', '', None, None], ['9004.10', None, None, '-Sunglasses', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9004.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9005', None, None, 'Binoculars, monoculars, other optical telescopes,\nand mountings therefor; other astronomical\ninstruments and mountings therefor, but not\nincluding instruments for radio-astronomy.', '', None, None], ['9005.10', None, None, '-Binoculars', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9005.80', None, None, '-Other instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9005.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories (including mountings)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006', None, None, 'Photographic (other than cinematographic)\ncameras; photographic flashlight apparatus and\nflashbulbs other than discharge lamps of heading\n85.39.', '', None, None], ['9006.30', None, None, '-Cameras specially designed for underwater use, for\naerial survey or for medical or surgical examination\nof internal organs; comparison cameras for forensic\nor criminological purposes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.40', None, None, '-Instant print cameras', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.5', None, None, '-Other cameras:', '', None, None], ['9006.51', None, None, '--With a through-the-lens viewfinder (single lens\nreflex (SLR)), for roll film of a width not exceeding\n35 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.52', None, None, '--Other, for roll film of a width less than 35 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.53', None, None, '--Other, for roll film of a width of 35 mm', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.6', None, None, '-Photographic flashlight apparatus and\nflashbulbs:', '', None, None], ['9006.61', None, None, '--Discharge lamp (“electronic”) flashlight apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.9', None, None, '-Parts and accessories:', '', None, None], ['9006.91', None, None, '--For cameras', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9006.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9007', None, None, 'Cinematographic cameras and projectors,\nwhether or not incorporating sound recording or\nreproducing apparatus.', '', None, None], ['9007.10', None, None, '-Cameras', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9007.20', None, None, '-Projectors', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9007.9', None, None, '-Parts and accessories:', '', None, None], ['9007.91', None, None, '--For cameras', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9007.92', None, None, '--For projectors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9008', None, None, 'Image projectors, other than cinematographic;\nphotographic (other than cinematographic)', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'enlargers and reducers.', '', None, None], ['9008.50', None, None, '-Projectors, enlargers and reducers', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9008.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9010', None, None, 'Apparatus and equipment for photographic\n(including cinematographic) laboratories, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this Chapter;\nnegatoscopes; projection screens.', '', None, None], ['9010.10', None, None, '-Apparatus and equipment for automatically\ndeveloping photographic (including cinematographic)\nfilm or paper in rolls or for automatically exposing\ndeveloped film to rolls of photographic paper', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9010.50', None, None, '-Other apparatus and equipment for photographic\n(including cinematographic) laboratories;\nnegatoscopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9010.60', None, None, '-Projection screens', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9010.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9011', None, None, 'Compound optical microscopes, including those\nfor photomicrography, cinephotomicrography or\nmicroprojection.', '', None, None], ['9011.10', None, None, '-Stereoscopic microscopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9011.20', None, None, '-Other microscopes, for photomicrography,\ncinephoto-micrography or microprojection', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9011.80', None, None, '-Other microscopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9011.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9012', None, None, 'Microscopes other than optical microscopes;\ndiffraction apparatus.', '', None, None], ['9012.10', None, None, '-Microscopes other than optical microscopes;\ndiffraction apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9012.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9013', None, None, 'Liquid crystal devices not constituting articles\nprovided for more specifically in other headings;\nlasers, other than laser diodes; other optical\nappliances and instruments, not specified or\nincluded elsewhere in this Chapter.', '', None, None], ['9013.10', None, None, '-Telescopic sights for fitting to arms; periscopes;\ntelescopes designed to form parts of machines,\nappliances, instruments or apparatus of this Chapter\nor Section XVI', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9013.20', None, None, '-Lasers, other than laser diodes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9013.80', None, None, '-Other devices, appliances and instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9013.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9014', None, None, 'Direction finding compasses; other navigational\ninstruments and appliances.', '', None, None], ['9014.10', None, None, '-Direction finding compasses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9014.20', None, None, '-Instruments and appliances for aeronautical or space\nnavigation (other than compasses)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9014.80', None, None, '-Other instruments and appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9014.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015', None, None, 'Surveying (including photogrammetrical\nsurveying), hydrographic, oceanographic,\nhydrological, meteorological or geophysical\ninstruments and appliances, excluding compasses;\nrangefinders.', '', None, None], ['9015.10', None, None, '-Rangefinders', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015.20', None, None, '-Theodolites and tachymeters (tacheometers)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015.30', None, None, '-Levels', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015.40', None, None, '-Photogrammetrical surveying instruments and\nappliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015.80', None, None, '-Other instruments and appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9015.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9016', None, None, 'Balances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or better, with or\nwithout weights.', '', None, None], ['9016.00', None, None, '-Balances of a sensitivity of 5 cg or better, with or\nwithout weights.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9017', None, None, 'Drawing, marking-out or mathematical\ncalculating instruments (for example, drafting\nmachines, pantographs, protractors, drawing sets,\nslide rules, disc calculators); instruments for\nmeasuring length, for use in the hand (for\nexample, measuring rods and tapes, micrometers,\ncallipers), not specified or included elsewhere in\nthis Chapter.', '', None, None], ['9017.10', None, None, '-Drafting tables and machines, whether or not\nautomatic', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9017.20', None, None, '-Other drawing, marking-out or mathematical\ncalculating instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9017.30', None, None, '-Micrometers, callipers and gauges', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9017.80', None, None, '-Other instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9017.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018', None, None, 'Instruments and appliances used in medical,', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'surgical, dental or veterinary sciences, including\nscintigraphic apparatus, other electro-medical\napparatus and sight-testing instruments.', '', None, None], ['9018.1', None, None, '-Electro-diagnostic apparatus (including\napparatus for functional exploratory examination\nor for checking physiological parameters):', '', None, None], ['9018.11', None, None, '--Electro-cardiographs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.12', None, None, '--Ultrasonic scanning apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.13', None, None, '--Magnetic resonance imaging apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.14', None, None, '--Scintigraphic apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.20', None, None, '-Ultra-violet or infra-red ray apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.3', None, None, '-Syringes, needles, catheters, cannulae and the\nlike:', '', None, None], ['9018.31', None, None, '--Syringes, with or without needles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.32', None, None, '--Tubular metal needles and needles for sutures', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.4', None, None, '-Other instruments and appliances, used in dental\nsciences:', '', None, None], ['9018.41', None, None, '--Dental drill engines, whether or not combined on a\nsingle base with other dental equipment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.50', None, None, '-Other ophthalmic instruments and appliances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9018.90', None, None, '-Other instruments and appliances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9019', None, None, 'Mechano-therapy appliances; massage apparatus;\npsychological aptitude-testing apparatus; ozone\ntherapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy,\nartificial respiration or other therapeutic\nrespiration apparatus.', '', None, None], ['9019.10', None, None, '-Mechano-therapy appliances; massage apparatus;\npsychological aptitude-testing apparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9019.20', None, None, '-Ozone therapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy,\nartificial respiration or other therapeutic respiration\napparatus', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9020', None, None, 'Other breathing appliances and gas masks,\nexcluding protective masks having neither\nmechanical parts nor replaceable filters.', '', None, None], ['9020.00', None, None, '-Other breathing appliances and gas masks, excluding\nprotective masks having neither mechanical parts nor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['', None, None, 'replaceable filters.', '', None, None], ['9021', None, None, 'Orthopaedic appliances, including crutches,\nsurgical belts and trusses; splints and other\nfracture appliances; artificial parts of the body;\nhearing aids and other appliances which are worn\nor carried, or implanted in the body, to\ncompensate for a defect or disability.', '', None, None], ['9021.10', None, None, '-Orthopaedic or fracture appliances', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.2', None, None, '-Artificial teeth and dental fittings:', '', None, None], ['9021.21', None, None, '--Artificial teeth', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.3', None, None, '-Other artificial parts of the body:', '', None, None], ['9021.31', None, None, '--Artificial joints', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.40', None, None, '-Hearing aids, excluding parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.50', None, None, '-Pacemakers for stimulating heart muscles, excluding\nparts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9021.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022', None, None, 'Apparatus based on the use of X-rays or of alpha,\nbeta or gamma radiations, whether or not for\nmedical, surgical, dental or veterinary uses,\nincluding radiography or radiotherapy apparatus,\nX-ray tubes and other X-ray generators, high\ntension generators, control panels and desks,\nscreens, examination or treatment tables, chairs\nand the like.', '', None, None], ['9022.1', None, None, '-Apparatus based on the use of X-rays, whether or\nnot for medical, surgical, dental or veterinary\nuses, including radiography or radiotherapy\napparatus:', '', None, None], ['9022.12', None, None, '--Computed tomography apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.13', None, None, '--Other, for dental uses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.14', None, None, '--Other, for medical, surgical or veterinary uses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.19', None, None, '--For other uses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.2', None, None, '-Apparatus based on the use of alpha, beta or\ngamma radiations, whether or not for medical,\nsurgical, dental or veterinary uses, including\nradiography or radiotherapy apparatus:', '', None, None], ['9022.21', None, None, '--For medical, surgical, dental or veterinary uses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.29', None, None, '--For other uses', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.30', None, None, '-X-ray tubes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9022.90', None, None, '-Other, including parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9023', None, None, 'Instruments, apparatus and models, designed for\ndemonstrational purposes (for example, in\neducation or exhibitions), unsuitable for other\nuses.', '', None, None], ['9023.00', None, None, '-Instruments, apparatus and models, designed for\ndemonstrational purposes (for example, in education\nor exhibitions), unsuitable for other uses.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9024', None, None, 'Machines and appliances for testing the hardness,\nstrength, compressibility, elasticity or other\nmechanical properties of materials (for example,\nmetals, wood, textiles, paper, plastics).', '', None, None], ['9024.10', None, None, '-Machines and appliances for testing metals', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9024.80', None, None, '-Other machines and appliances', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9024.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9025', None, None, 'Hydrometers and similar floating instruments,\nthermometers, pyrometers, barometers,\nhygrometers and psychrometers, recording or not,\nand any combination of these instruments.', '', None, None], ['9025.1', None, None, '-Thermometers and pyrometers not combined\nwith other instruments:', '', None, None], ['9025.11', None, None, '--Liquid-filled, for direct reading', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9025.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9025.80', None, None, '-Other instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9025.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9026', None, None, 'Instruments and apparatus for measuring or\nchecking the flow, level, pressure or other\nvariables of liquids or gases (for example, flow\nmeters, level gauges, manometers, heat meters),\nexcluding instruments and apparatus of heading\n90.14, 90.15, 90.28 or 90.32.', '', None, None], ['9026.10', None, None, '-For measuring or checking the flow or level of\nliquids', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9026.20', None, None, '-For measuring or checking pressure', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9026.80', None, None, '-Other instruments or apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9026.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027', None, None, 'Instruments and apparatus for physical or\nchemical analysis (for example, polarimeters,\nrefractometers, spectrometers, gas or smoke\nanalysis apparatus); instruments and apparatus\nfor measuring or checking viscosity, porosity,\nexpansion, surface tension or the like; instruments\nand apparatus for measuring or checking\nquantities of heat, sound or light (including\nexposure meters); microtomes.', '', None, None], ['9027.10', None, None, '-Gas or smoke analysis apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027.20', None, None, '-Chromatographs and electrophoresis instruments', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027.30', None, None, '-Spectrometers, spectrophotometers and\nspectrographs using optical radiations (UV, visible,\nIR)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027.50', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus using optical\nradiations (UV, visible, IR)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027.80', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9027.90', None, None, '-Microtomes; parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9028', None, None, 'Gas, liquid or electricity supply or production\nmeters, including calibrating meters therefor.', '', None, None], ['9028.10', None, None, '-Gas meters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9028.20', None, None, '-Liquid meters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9028.30', None, None, '-Electricity meters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9028.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9029', None, None, 'Revolution counters, production counters,\ntaximeters, mileometers, pedometers and the like;\nspeed indicators and tachometers, other than\nthose of heading 90.14 or 90.15; stroboscopes.', '', None, None], ['9029.10', None, None, '-Revolution counters, production counters,\ntaximeters, mileometers, pedometers and the like', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9029.20', None, None, '-Speed indicators and tachometers; stroboscopes', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9029.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030', None, None, 'Oscilloscopes, spectrum analysers and other\ninstruments and apparatus for measuring or\nchecking electrical quantities, excluding meters of\nheading 90.28; instruments and apparatus for\nmeasuring or detecting alpha, beta, gamma, X-\nray, cosmic or other ionising radiations.', '', None, None], ['9030.10', None, None, '-Instruments and apparatus for measuring or\ndetecting ionising radiations', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.20', None, None, '-Oscilloscopes and oscillographs', 'CTSH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.3', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus, for measuring\nor checking voltage, current, resistance or power:', '', None, None], ['9030.31', None, None, '--Multimeters without a recording device', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.32', None, None, '--Multimeters with a recording device', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.33', None, None, '--Other, without a recording device', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.39', None, None, '--Other, with a recording device', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.40', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus, specially designed\nfor telecommunications (for example, cross-talk\nmeters, gain measuring instruments, distortion factor\nmeters, psophometers)', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.8', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus:', '', None, None], ['9030.82', None, None, '--For measuring or checking semiconductor wafers or\ndevices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.84', None, None, '--Other, with a recording device', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9030.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031', None, None, 'Measuring or checking instruments, appliances\nand machines, not specified or included elsewhere\nin this Chapter; profile projectors.', '', None, None], ['9031.10', None, None, '-Machines for balancing mechanical parts', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031.20', None, None, '-Test benches', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031.4', None, None, '-Other optical instruments and appliances:', '', None, None], ['9031.41', None, None, '--For inspecting semiconductor wafers or devices or\nfor inspecting photomasks or reticles used in\nmanufacturing semiconductor devices', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031.49', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031.80', None, None, '-Other instruments, appliances and machines', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9031.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9032', None, None, 'Automatic regulating or controlling instruments\nand apparatus.', '', None, None], ['9032.10', None, None, '-Thermostats', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9032.20', None, None, '-Manostats', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9032.8', None, None, '-Other instruments and apparatus:', '', None, None], ['9032.81', None, None, '--Hydraulic or pneumatic', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9032.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9032.90', None, None, '-Parts and accessories', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9033', None, None, 'Parts and accessories (not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter) for machines,\nappliances, instruments or apparatus of Chapter\n90.', '', None, None], ['9033.00', None, None, '-Parts and accessories (not specified or included\nelsewhere in this Chapter) for machines, appliances,\ninstruments or apparatus of Chapter 90.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 91', None, None, 'Clocks and Watches and Parts Thereof', '', None, None], ['9101', None, None, 'Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, with case of precious\nmetal or of metal clad with precious metal.', '', None, None], ['9101.1', None, None, '-Wrist-watches, electrically operated, whether or\nnot incorporating a stop-watch facility:', '', None, None], ['9101.11', None, None, '--With mechanical display only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9101.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9101.2', None, None, '-Other wrist-watches, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility:', '', None, None], ['9101.21', None, None, '--With automatic winding', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9101.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9101.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9101.91', None, None, '--Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9101.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102', None, None, 'Wrist-watches, pocket-watches and other watches,\nincluding stop-watches, other than those of\nheading 91.01.', '', None, None], ['9102.1', None, None, '-Wrist-watches, electrically operated, whether or\nnot incorporating a stop-watch facility:', '', None, None], ['9102.11', None, None, '--With mechanical display only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.12', None, None, '--With opto-electronic display only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.2', None, None, '-Other wrist-watches, whether or not\nincorporating a stop-watch facility:', '', None, None], ['9102.21', None, None, '--With automatic winding', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9102.91', None, None, '--Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9102.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9103', None, None, 'Clocks with watch movements, excluding clocks of\nheading 91.04.', '', None, None], ['9103.10', None, None, '-Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9103.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9104', None, None, 'Instrument panel clocks and clocks of a similar\ntype for vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or vessels.', '', None, None], ['9104.00', None, None, '-Instrument panel clocks and clocks of a similar type\nfor vehicles, aircraft, spacecraft or vessels.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105', None, None, 'Other clocks.', '', None, None], ['9105.1', None, None, '-Alarm clocks:', '', None, None], ['9105.11', None, None, '--Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105.2', None, None, '-Wall clocks:', '', None, None], ['9105.21', None, None, '--Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9105.91', None, None, '--Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9105.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9106', None, None, 'Time of day recording apparatus and apparatus\nfor measuring, recording or otherwise indicating\nintervals of time, with clock or watch movement\nor with synchronous motor (for example, time-\nregisters, time-recorders).', '', None, None], ['9106.10', None, None, '-Time-registers; time-recorders', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9106.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9107', None, None, 'Time switches with clock or watch movement or\nwith synchronous motor.', '', None, None], ['9107.00', None, None, '-Time switches with clock or watch movement or\nwith synchronous motor.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9108', None, None, 'Watch movements, complete and assembled.', '', None, None], ['9108.1', None, None, '-Electrically operated:', '', None, None], ['9108.11', None, None, '--With mechanical display only or with a device to\nwhich a mechanical display can be incorporated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9108.12', None, None, '--With opto-electronic display only', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9108.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9108.20', None, None, '-With automatic winding', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9108.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9109', None, None, 'Clock movements, complete and assembled.', '', None, None], ['9109.10', None, None, '-Electrically operated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9109.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9110', None, None, 'Complete watch or clock movements,\nunassembled or partly assembled (movement\nsets); incomplete watch or clock movements,\nassembled; rough watch or clock movements.', '', None, None], ['9110.1', None, None, '-Of watches:', '', None, None], ['9110.11', None, None, '--Complete movements, unassembled or partly\nassembled (movement sets)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9110.12', None, None, '--Incomplete movements, assembled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9110.19', None, None, '--Rough movements', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9110.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9111', None, None, 'Watch cases and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9111.10', None, None, '-Cases of precious metal or of metal clad with\nprecious metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9111.20', None, None, '-Cases of base metal, whether or not gold- or silver-\nplated', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9111.80', None, None, '-Other cases', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9111.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9112', None, None, 'Clock cases and cases of a similar type for other\ngoods of this Chapter, and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9112.20', None, None, '-Cases', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9112.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9113', None, None, 'Watch straps, watch bands and watch bracelets,\nand parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9113.10', None, None, '-Of precious metal or of metal clad with precious\nmetal', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9113.20', None, None, '-Of base metal, whether or not gold- or silver-plated', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9113.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9114', None, None, 'Other clock or watch parts.', '', None, None], ['9114.10', None, None, '-Springs, including hair-springs', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9114.30', None, None, '-Dials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9114.40', None, None, '-Plates and bridges', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9114.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 92', None, None, 'Musical Instruments; Parts and Accessories of\nSuch Articles', '', None, None], ['9201', None, None, 'Pianos, including automatic pianos; harpsichords\nand other keyboard stringed instruments.', '', None, None], ['9201.10', None, None, '-Upright pianos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9201.20', None, None, '-Grand pianos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9201.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9202', None, None, 'Other string musical instruments (for example,\nguitars, violins, harps).', '', None, None], ['9202.10', None, None, '-Played with a bow', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9202.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9205', None, None, 'Wind musical instruments (for example, keyboard\npipe organs, accordions, clarinets, trumpets,\nbagpipes), other than fairground organs and\nmechanical street organs.', '', None, None], ['9205.10', None, None, '-Brass-wind instruments', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9205.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9206', None, None, 'Percussion musical instruments (for example,\ndrums, xylophones, cymbals, castanets, maracas).', '', None, None], ['9206.00', None, None, '-Percussion musical instruments (for example, drums,\nxylophones, cymbals, castanets, maracas).', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9207', None, None, 'Musical instruments, the sound of which is\nproduced, or must be amplified, electrically (for\nexample, organs, guitars, accordions).', '', None, None], ['9207.10', None, None, '-Keyboard instruments, other than accordions', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9207.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9208', None, None, 'Musical boxes, fairground organs, mechanical\nstreet organs, mechanical singing birds, musical\nsaws and other musical instruments not falling\nwithin any other heading of this Chapter; decoy\ncalls of all kinds; whistles, call horns and other\nmouth-blown sound signalling instruments.', '', None, None], ['9208.10', None, None, '-Musical boxes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9208.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9209', None, None, 'Parts (for example, mechanisms for musical\nboxes) and accessories (for example, cards, discs\nand rolls for mechanical instruments) of musical', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'instruments; metronomes, tuning forks and pitch\npipes of all kinds.', '', None, None], ['9209.30', None, None, '-Musical instrument strings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9209.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9209.91', None, None, '--Parts and accessories for pianos', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9209.92', None, None, '--Parts and accessories for the musical instruments of\nheading 92.02', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9209.94', None, None, '--Parts and accessories for the musical instruments of\nheading 92.07', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9209.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XIX - ARMS AND AMMUNITION PARTS AND ACCESSORIES\nTHEREOF', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 93', None, None, 'Arms and Ammunition; Parts and Accessories\nThereof', '', None, None], ['9301', None, None, 'Military weapons, other than revolvers, pistols\nand the arms of heading 93.07.', '', None, None], ['9301.10', None, None, '-Artillery weapons (for example, guns, howitzers and\nmortars)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9301.20', None, None, '-Rocket launchers; flame-throwers; grenade\nlaunchers; torpedo tubes and similar projectors', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9301.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9302', None, None, 'Revolvers and pistols, other than those of heading\n93.03 or 93.04.', '', None, None], ['9302.00', None, None, '-Revolvers and pistols, other than those of heading\n93.03 or 93.04.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9303', None, None, 'Other firearms and similar devices which operate\nby the firing of an explosive charge (for example,\nsporting shotguns and rifles, muzzle-loading\nfirearms, Very pistols and other devices designed\nto project only signal flares, pistols and revolvers\nfor firing blank ammunition, captive-bolt humane\nkillers, line-throwing guns).', '', None, None], ['9303.10', None, None, '-Muzzle-loading firearms', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9303.20', None, None, '-Other sporting, hunting or target shooting shotguns,\nincluding combination shotgun rifles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9303.30', None, None, '-Other sporting, hunting or target shooting rifles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9303.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9304', None, None, 'Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns\nand pistols, truncheons), excluding those of\nheading 93.07.', '', None, None], ['9304.00', None, None, '-Other arms (for example, spring, air or gas guns and\npistols, truncheons), excluding those of heading\n93.07.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9305', None, None, 'Parts and accessories of articles of headings 93.01', '', None, None], ['', None, None, 'to 93.04.', '', None, None], ['9305.10', None, None, '-Of revolvers or pistols', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9305.20', None, None, '-Of shotguns or rifles of heading 93.03', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9305.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9305.91', None, None, '--Of military weapons of heading 93.01', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9305.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9306', None, None, 'Bombs, grenades, torpedoes, mines, missiles and\nsimilar munitions of war and parts thereof;\ncartridges and other ammunition and projectiles\nand parts thereof, including shot and cartridge\nwads.', '', None, None], ['9306.2', None, None, '-Shotgun cartridges and parts thereof; air gun\npellets:', '', None, None], ['9306.21', None, None, '--Cartridges', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9306.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9306.30', None, None, '-Other cartridges and parts thereof', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9306.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9307', None, None, 'Swords, cutlasses, bayonets, lances and similar\narms and parts thereof and scabbards and sheaths\ntherefor.', '', None, None], ['9307.00', None, None, '-Swords, cutlasses, bayonets, lances and similar arms\nand parts thereof and scabbards and sheaths therefor.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['SECTION XX -MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURED ARTICLES', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 94', None, None, 'Furniture; Bedding, Mattresses, Mattress\nSupports, Cushions and Similar Stuffed\nFurnishings; Lamps and Lighting Fittings, Not\nElsewhere Specified or Included; Illuminated\nSigns, Illuminated Name-plates and the Like;\nPrefabricated Buildings', '', None, None], ['9401', None, None, 'Seats (other than those of heading 94.02), whether\nor not convertible into beds, and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9401.10', None, None, '-Seats of a kind used for aircraft', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.20', None, None, '-Seats of a kind used for motor vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.30', None, None, '-Swivel seats with variable height adjustment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.40', None, None, '-Seats other than garden seats or camping equipment,\nconvertible into beds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.5', None, None, '-Seats of cane, osier, bamboo or similar materials:', '', None, None], ['9401.52', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.53', None, None, '--Of rattan', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.6', None, None, '-Other seats, with wooden frames:', '', None, None], ['9401.61', None, None, '--Upholstered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.7', None, None, '-Other seats, with metal frames:', '', None, None], ['9401.71', None, None, '--Upholstered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.79', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.80', None, None, '-Other seats', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9401.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9402', None, None, "Medical, surgical, dental or veterinary furniture\n(for example, operating tables, examination tables,\nhospital beds with mechanical fittings, dentists'\nchairs); barbers' chairs and similar chairs, having\nrotating as well as both reclining and elevating\nmovements; parts of the foregoing articles.", '', None, None], ['9402.10', None, None, "-Dentists', barbers' or similar chairs and parts thereof", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9402.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403', None, None, 'Other furniture and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9403.10', None, None, '-Metal furniture of a kind used in offices', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.20', None, None, '-Other metal furniture', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.30', None, None, '-Wooden furniture of a kind used in offices', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.40', None, None, '-Wooden furniture of a kind used in the kitchen', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.50', None, None, '-Wooden furniture of a kind used in the bedroom', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.60', None, None, '-Other wooden furniture', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.70', None, None, '-Furniture of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.8', None, None, '-Furniture of other materials, including cane,\nosier, bamboo or similar materials:', '', None, None], ['9403.82', None, None, '--Of bamboo', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.83', None, None, '--Of rattan', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.89', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9403.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9404', None, None, 'Mattress supports; articles of bedding and similar\nfurnishing (for example, mattresses, quilts,\neiderdowns, cushions, pouffes and pillows) fitted\nwith springs or stuffed or internally fitted with\nany material or of cellular rubber or plastics,\nwhether or not covered.', '', None, None], ['9404.10', None, None, '-Mattress supports', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9404.2', None, None, '-Mattresses:', '', None, None], ['9404.21', None, None, '--Of cellular rubber or plastics, whether or not\ncovered', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9404.29', None, None, '--Of other materials', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9404.30', None, None, '-Sleeping bags', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9404.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405', None, None, 'Lamps and lighting fittings including searchlights\nand spotlights and parts thereof, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; illuminated signs,\nilluminated name-plates and the like, having a\npermanently fixed light source, and parts thereof\nnot elsewhere specified or included.', '', None, None], ['9405.10', None, None, '-Chandeliers and other electric ceiling or wall\nlighting fittings, excluding those of a kind used for\nlighting public open spaces or thoroughfares', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.20', None, None, '-Electric table, desk, bedside or floor-standing lamps', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.30', None, None, '-Lighting sets of a kind used for Christmas trees', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.40', None, None, '-Other electric lamps and lighting fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.50', None, None, '-Non-electrical lamps and lighting fittings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.60', None, None, '-Illuminated signs, illuminated name-plates and the\nlike', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.9', None, None, '-Parts:', '', None, None], ['9405.91', None, None, '--Of glass', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.92', None, None, '--Of plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9405.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9406', None, None, 'Prefabricated buildings.', '', None, None], ['9406.10', None, None, '-Of wood', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9406.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 95', None, None, 'Toys, Games and Sports Requisites; Parts and\nAccessories Thereof', '', None, None], ['9503', None, None, 'Tricycles, scooters, pedal cars and similar wheeled\ntoys; dolls\' carriages; dolls; other toys; reduced-\nsize ("scale") models and similar recreational\nmodels, working or not; puzzles of all kinds.', '', None, None], ['9503.00', None, None, '-Tricycles, scooters, pedal cars and similar wheeled\ntoys; dolls\' carriages; dolls; other toys; reduced-size\n("scale") models and similar recreational models,\nworking or not; puzzles of all kinds.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9504', None, None, 'Video game consoles and machines, articles for\nfunfair, table or parlor games, including pintables,\nbilliards, special tables for casino games and\nautomatic bowling alley equipment.', '', None, None], ['9504.20', None, None, '-Articles and accessories for billiards of all kinds', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9504.30', None, None, '-Other games, operated by coins, banknotes, bank\ncards, tokens or by any other means of payment,\nother than automatic bowling alley equipment', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9504.40', None, None, '-Playing cards', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9504.50', None, None, '-Video game consoles and machines, other than those\nof subheading 9504.30', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9504.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9505', None, None, 'Festive, carnival or other entertainment articles,\nincluding conjuring tricks and novelty jokes.', '', None, None], ['9505.10', None, None, '-Articles for Christmas festivities', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9505.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506', None, None, 'Articles and equipment for general physical\nexercise, gymnastics, athletics, other sports\n(including table-tennis) or outdoor games, not\nspecified or included elsewhere in this Chapter;\nswimming pools and paddling pools.', '', None, None], ['9506.1', None, None, '-Snow-skis and other snow-ski equipment:', '', None, None], ['9506.11', None, None, '--Skis', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.12', None, None, '--Ski-fastenings (ski-bindings)', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.2', None, None, '-Water-skis, surf-boards, sailboards and other\nwater-sport equipment:', '', None, None], ['9506.21', None, None, '--Sailboards', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.3', None, None, '-Golf clubs and other golf equipment:', '', None, None], ['9506.31', None, None, '--Clubs, complete', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.32', None, None, '--Balls', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.39', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.40', None, None, '-Articles and equipment for table-tennis', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.5', None, None, '-Tennis, badminton or similar rackets, whether or\nnot strung:', '', None, None], ['9506.51', None, None, '--Lawn-tennis rackets, whether or not strung', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.59', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.6', None, None, '-Balls, other than golf balls and table-tennis balls:', '', None, None], ['9506.61', None, None, '--Lawn-tennis balls', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.62', None, None, '--Inflatable', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.69', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.70', None, None, '-Ice skates and roller skates, including skating boots\nwith skates attached', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9506.91', None, None, '--Articles and equipment for general physical\nexercise, gymnastics or athletics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9506.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9507', None, None, 'Fishing rods, fish-hooks and other line fishing\ntackle; fish landing nets, butterfly nets and similar\nnets; decoy "birds" (other than those of heading\n92.08 or 97.05) and similar hunting or shooting\nrequisites.', '', None, None], ['9507.10', None, None, '-Fishing rods', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9507.20', None, None, '-Fish-hooks, whether or not snelled', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9507.30', None, None, '-Fishing reels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9507.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9508', None, None, 'Roundabouts, swings, shooting galleries and other\nfairground amusements; travelling circuses and\ntravelling menageries; travelling theatres.', '', None, None], ['9508.10', None, None, '-Travelling circuses and travelling menageries', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9508.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['Chapter 96', None, None, 'Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles', '', None, None], ['9601', None, None, 'Worked ivory, bone, tortoise-shell, horn, antlers,\ncoral, mother-of-pearl and other animal carving\nmaterial, and articles of these materials (including\narticles obtained by moulding).', '', None, None], ['9601.10', None, None, '-Worked ivory and articles of ivory', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9601.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9602', None, None, 'Worked vegetable or mineral carving material\nand articles of these materials; moulded or carved\narticles of wax, of stearin, of natural gums or\nnatural resins or of modelling pastes, and other\nmoulded or carved articles, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; worked, unhardened gelatin\n(except gelatin of heading 35.03) and articles of\nunhardened gelatin.', '', None, None], ['9602.00', None, None, '-Worked vegetable or mineral carving material and\narticles of these materials; moulded or carved articles\nof wax, of stearin, of natural gums or natural resins or\nof modelling pastes, and other moulded or carved\narticles, not elsewhere specified or included; worked,\nunhardened gelatin (except gelatin of heading 35.03)\nand articles of unhardened gelatin.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603', None, None, 'Brooms, brushes (including brushes constituting\nparts of machines, appliances or vehicles),\nhand-operated mechanical floor sweepers, not\nmotorized, mops and feather dusters; prepared\nknots and tufts for broom or brush making; paint\npads and rollers; squeegees (other than roller\nsqueegees).', '', None, None], ['9603.10', None, None, '-Brooms and brushes, consisting of twigs or other\nvegetable materials bound together, with or without\nhandles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.2', None, None, '-Tooth brushes, shaving brushes, hair brushes,\nnail brushes, eyelash brushes and other toilet\nbrushes for use on the person including such\nbrushes constituting parts of appliances:', '', None, None], ['9603.21', None, None, '--Tooth brushes, including dental-plate brushes', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.30', None, None, "-Artists' brushes, writing brushes and similar brushes\nfor the application of cosmetics", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.40', None, None, '-Paint, distemper, varnish or similar brushes (other\nthan brushes of subheading 9603.30); paint pads and\nrollers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.50', None, None, '-Other brushes constituting parts of machines,\nappliances or vehicles', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9603.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9604', None, None, 'Hand sieves and hand riddles.', '', None, None], ['9604.00', None, None, '-Hand sieves and hand riddles.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9605', None, None, 'Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing or shoe or\nclothes cleaning.', '', None, None], ['9605.00', None, None, '-Travel sets for personal toilet, sewing or shoe or', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'clothes cleaning.', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9606', None, None, 'Buttons, press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press-\nstuds, button moulds and other parts of these\narticles; button blanks.', '', None, None], ['9606.10', None, None, '-Press-fasteners, snap-fasteners and press-studs and\nparts therefor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9606.2', None, None, '-Buttons:', '', None, None], ['9606.21', None, None, '--Of plastics, not covered with textile material', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9606.22', None, None, '--Of base metal, not covered with textile material', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9606.29', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9606.30', None, None, '-Button moulds and other parts of buttons; button\nblanks', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9607', None, None, 'Slide fasteners and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9607.1', None, None, '-Slide fasteners:', '', None, None], ['9607.11', None, None, '--Fitted with chain scoops of base metal', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9607.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9607.20', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608', None, None, 'Ball point pens; felt tipped and other porous-\ntipped pens and markers; fountain pens,\nstylograph pens and other pens; duplicating\nstylos; propelling or sliding pencils; pen-holders,\npencil-holders and similar holders; parts\n(including caps and clips) of the foregoing articles,\nother than those of heading 96.09.', '', None, None], ['9608.10', None, None, '-Ball point pens', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.20', None, None, '-Felt tipped and other porous-tipped pens and\nmarkers', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.30', None, None, '-Fountain pens, stylograph pens and other pens', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.40', None, None, '-Propelling or sliding pencils', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.50', None, None, '-Sets of articles from two or more of the foregoing\nsubheadings', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.60', None, None, '-Refills for ball point pens, comprising the ball point\nand ink-reservoir', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.9', None, None, '-Other:', '', None, None], ['9608.91', None, None, '--Pen nibs and nib points', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9608.99', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9609', None, None, "Pencils (other than pencils of heading 96.08),\ncrayons, pencil leads, pastels, drawing charcoals,\nwriting or drawing chalks and tailors' chalks.", '', None, None], ['9609.10', None, None, '-Pencils and crayons, with leads encased in a rigid', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, 'sheath', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9609.20', None, None, '-Pencil leads, black or coloured', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9609.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9610', None, None, 'Slates and boards, with writing or drawing\nsurfaces, whether or not framed.', '', None, None], ['9610.00', None, None, '-Slates and boards, with writing or drawing surfaces,\nwhether or not framed.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9611', None, None, 'Date, sealing or numbering stamps, and the like\n(including devices for printing or embossing\nlabels), designed for operating in the hand; hand-\noperated composing sticks and hand printing sets\nincorporating such composing sticks.', '', None, None], ['9611.00', None, None, '-Date, sealing or numbering stamps, and the like\n(including devices for printing or embossing labels),\ndesigned for operating in the hand; hand-operated\ncomposing sticks and hand printing sets incorporating\nsuch composing sticks.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9612', None, None, 'Typewriter or similar ribbons, inked or otherwise\nprepared for giving impressions, whether or not\non spools or in cartridges; ink-pads, whether or\nnot inked, with or without boxes.', '', None, None], ['9612.10', None, None, '-Ribbons', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9612.20', None, None, '-Ink-pads', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9613', None, None, 'Cigarette lighters and other lighters, whether or\nnot mechanical or electrical, and parts thereof\nother than flints and wicks.', '', None, None], ['9613.10', None, None, '-Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, non-refillable', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9613.20', None, None, '-Pocket lighters, gas fuelled, refillable', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9613.80', None, None, '-Other lighters', 'CTSH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9613.90', None, None, '-Parts', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9614', None, None, 'Smoking pipes (including pipe bowls) and cigar or\ncigarette holders, and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9614.00', None, None, '-Smoking pipes (including pipe bowls) and cigar or\ncigarette holders, and parts thereof.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9615', None, None, 'Combs, hair-slides and the like; hairpins, curling\npins, curling grips, hair-curlers and the like, other\nthan those of heading 85.16, and parts thereof.', '', None, None], ['9615.1', None, None, '-Combs, hair-slides and the like:', '', None, None], ['9615.11', None, None, '--Of hard rubber or plastics', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9615.19', None, None, '--Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9615.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or', None, None], ['', None, None, '', 'RVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9616', None, None, 'Scent sprays and similar toilet sprays, and mounts\nand heads therefor; powder-puffs and pads for the\napplication of cosmetics or toilet preparations.', '', None, None], ['9616.10', None, None, '-Scent sprays and similar toilet sprays, and mounts\nand heads therefor', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9616.20', None, None, '-Powder-puffs and pads for the application of\ncosmetics or toilet preparations', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9617', None, None, 'Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels,\ncomplete with cases; parts thereof other than glass\ninners.', '', None, None], ['9617.00', None, None, '-Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels, complete\nwith cases; parts thereof other than glass inners.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9618', None, None, "Tailors' dummies and other lay figures; automata\nand other animated displays used for shop\nwindow dressing.", '', None, None], ['9618.00', None, None, "-Tailors' dummies and other lay figures; automata\nand other animated displays used for shop window\ndressing.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9619', None, None, 'Sanitary towels (pads) and tampons, napkins and\nnapkin liners for babies and similar articles, of\nany material.', '', None, None], ['9619.00', None, None, '-Sanitary towels (pads) and tampons, napkins and\nnapkin liners for babies and similar articles, of any\nmaterial.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9620', None, None, 'Monopods, bipods, tripods and similar articles.', '', None, None], ['9620.00', None, None, '-Monopods, bipods, tripods and similar articles.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ["SECTION XXI -WORKS OF ART, COLLECTORS' PIECES, AND ANTIQUES", None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Chapter 97', None, None, "Works of Art, Collectors' Pieces and Antiques", '', None, None], ['9701', None, None, 'Paintings, drawings and pastels, executed entirely\nby hand, other than drawings of heading 49.06\nand other than hand-painted or hand-decorated\nmanufactured articles; collages and similar\ndecorative plaques.', '', None, None], ['9701.10', None, None, '-Paintings, drawings and pastels', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9701.90', None, None, '-Other', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9702', None, None, 'Original engravings, prints and lithographs.', '', None, None], ['9702.00', None, None, '-Original engravings, prints and lithographs.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9703', None, None, 'Original sculptures and statuary, in any material.', '', None, None], ['9703.00', None, None, '-Original sculptures and statuary, in any material.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9704', None, None, 'Postage or revenue stamps, stamp-postmarks,\nfirst-day covers, postal stationery (stamped\npaper), and the like, used or unused, other than\nthose of heading 49.07.', '', None, None], ['9704.00', None, None, '-Postage or revenue stamps, stamp-postmarks, first-\nday covers, postal stationery (stamped paper), and the', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['', None, None, 'like, used or unused, other than those of heading\n49.07.', '', None, None], ['9705', None, None, "Collections and collectors' pieces of zoological,\nbotanical, mineralogical, anatomical, historical,\narchaeological, palaeontological, ethnographic or\nnumismatic interest.", '', None, None], ['9705.00', None, None, "-Collections and collectors' pieces of zoological,\nbotanical, mineralogical, anatomical, historical,\narchaeological, palaeontological, ethnographic or\nnumismatic interest.", 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None], ['9706', None, None, 'Antiques of an age exceeding one hundred years.', '', None, None], ['9706.00', None, None, '-Antiques of an age exceeding one hundred years.', 'CTH or\nRVC/QVC40', None, None]]
