    FREE TRADE AGREEMENT   BETWEEN   THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA   AND  THE EFTA STATES    
                                                                          IIFINAL ACT TO THE FREE TRADE AGREEMENT  BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA AND THE EFTA STATES    Having met in order to conclude the Free Trade Agreement negotiations between them, the plenipotentiaries of:  the Republic of Korea, (hereinafter referred to as Korea),   and of the Republic of Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation, (hereinafter referred to collectively as the EFTA States)  hereby agree:  (1) to subscribe to the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Korea  and the EFTA States,   (2) to adopt the Joint Declaration hereto, and  (3) to subscribe to the Record of Understanding hereto.  On this occasion, the plenipotentiaries of Korea and the EFTA States concerned   hereby also agree:  (1) to adopt the Declaration by Korea and Switzerland on Medical Devices to the Free Trade Agreement between Korea and the EFTA States,  (2) to subscribe to the Agreement on Investment between the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein and the Swiss Confederation,  (3) to subscribe to the Agreement on Agriculture between the Republic of Korea and the Republic of Iceland,   (4) to subscribe to the Agreement on Agriculture between the Republic of Korea and the Kingdom of Norway, and  (5) to subscribe to the Agreement on Agriculture between the Republic of Korea and the Swiss Confederation.  All of these texts are attached to this Final Act.  
                                                                          III Done at Hong Kong, this 15 day of December 2005, in a single original in the English language, which shall be deposited with the Government of Norway.  The Depositary shall transmit certified copies to all Signatory States.    For the Republic of Korea    For the Republic of Iceland      ...........................................   ...............................................    For the Principality of Liechtenstein   ...........................................    For the Kingdom of Norway   ...........................................    For the Swiss Confederation   ...........................................
                                                                          IV PREAMBLE   The Republic of Korea (hereinafter referred to as “Korea”),  and   the Republic of Iceland, the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the Swiss Confederation (hereinafter referred to as “the EFTA States”),   hereinafter collectively referred to as “the Parties”,  CONSIDERING the important links existing between Korea and the EFTA States;  WISHING to strengthen these links through the creation of a free trade area, thus establishing close and lasting relations;  CONVINCED that the free trade area will create an expanded and secure market for goods and services in their territories and create a stable and predictable environment for investment, thus enhancing the competitiveness of their firms in global markets;   REAFFIRMING their commitment to the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;  RESOLVED by way of the removal of obstacles to trade through the creation of a free trade area to contribute to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade and provide a catalyst to broader international co-operation, in particular between Europe and Asia;   AIMING to create new employment opportunities, improve living standards and ensure a large and steadily growing real income in their respective territories through the expansion of trade and investment flows;   CONVINCED that this Agreement will create conditions encouraging economic, trade and investment relations between them;  BUILDING on their respective rights and obligations under the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the WTO and the other agreements negotiated thereunder (hereinafter referred to as “the WTO Agreement”) and other multilateral and bilateral instruments of co-operation to which they are both parties; and   RECOGNISING that trade liberalisation should allow for the optimal use of the world's resources in accordance with the objective of sustainable development, seeking both to protect and preserve the environment;    HAVE AGREED, in pursuit of the above, as follows:   
                                                                          V CHAPTER 1  GENERAL PROVISIONS    A1.1  Objectives  1. Korea and the EFTA States hereby establish a free trade area in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.  2. The objectives of this Agreement, which is based on trade relations between market economies, are:  (a) to achieve the liberalisation and facilitation of trade in goods, in conformity with Article XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (hereinafter referred to as “the GATT 1994”);  (b) to achieve the liberalisation of trade in services, in conformity with Article V of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (hereinafter referred to as “the GATS”);  (c) to promote competition in their economies, particularly as it relates to economic relations between the Parties;  (d) to achieve further liberalisation on a mutual basis of the government procurement markets of the Parties;   (e) to ensure adequate and effective protection of intellectual property rights, in accordance with international standards; and  (f) to contribute in this way, by the removal of barriers to trade and by developing an environment conducive to increased investment flows, to the harmonious development and expansion of world trade.   A1.2  Geographical Scope  1. Without prejudice to Annex I, this Agreement shall apply:  (a) to the land territory, internal waters, and the territorial sea of a Party, and the air-space above the territory in accordance with international law; as well as  (b) beyond the territorial sea, with respect to measures taken by a Party in 
                                                                          VIthe exercise of its sovereign right or jurisdiction in accordance with international law.  2. Annex II applies with respect to Norway.   A1.3  Trade and Economic Relations Governed by this Agreement  1. The provisions of this Agreement apply to the trade and economic relations between, on the one side, Korea and, on the other side, the EFTA States, but not to the trade relations between individual EFTA States, unless otherwise provided for in this Agreement.  2. As a result of the customs union established by the Treaty of 29 March 1923 between the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein, the Swiss Confederation shall represent the Principality of Liechtenstein in matters covered thereby.    A1.4  Investment   Regarding investment, reference is made to the agreement on investment separately concluded between Korea, on the one hand, and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, on the other. This agreement shall for these Parties form part of the instruments establishing the free trade area.   A1.5  Relationship to other Agreements  The provisions of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights and obligations of the Parties under the WTO Agreement and any other international agreement to which they are party.   A1.6  Regional and Local Government  Each Party shall ensure within its territory the observance of all obligations and commitments under this Agreement by its respective regional and local governments and authorities, and by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of governmental powers delegated to them by central, regional and local governments or authorities. 
                                                                          VII  A1.7  Preferential Agreements  This Agreement shall not prevent the maintenance or establishment of customs unions, free trade areas, arrangements for frontier trade and other preferential agreements to the extent that these do not adversely affect the trade regime provided for by this Agreement.    CHAPTER 2  TRADE IN GOODS    A2.1  Scope  1. This Chapter shall apply to the products listed below, which must originate in Korea or an EFTA State except when the rights and obligations of the Parties are governed by the GATT 1994:   (a) all products falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (hereinafter referred to as “the HS”), excluding the products listed in Annex III;  (b) processed agricultural products as provided for in Annex IV; and  (c) fish and other marine products as provided for in Annex V.  2. Korea and each EFTA State have concluded agreements on trade in agricultural products on a bilateral basis. These agreements form part of the instruments establishing the free trade area between Korea and the EFTA States.   A2.2  Rules of Origin and Customs Procedures  The provisions on rules of origin and customs procedures are set out in Annex I.   A2.3  Customs Duties 
                                                                          VIII 1. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, Korea and the EFTA States shall abolish all customs duties and other duties or charges on imports and exports of products originating in in Korea or in an EFTA State except as otherwise provided for in Annex VI.   2. No new customs duties and other duties or charges on imports and exports of products originating in Korea or in an EFTA State shall be introduced.  3. “Customs duties and other duties or charges on imports and exports” includes any duty or charge of any kind imposed in connection with the importation or exportation of a product, including any form of surtax or surcharge in connection with such importation or exportation, but does not include any charge imposed in conformity with Articles III and VIII of the GATT 1994.   A2.4  Base Rate of Customs Duties  1. For each product the base rate of customs duties, to which the successive reductions set out in Annexes IV, V and VI are to be applied, shall be the most-favoured nation (hereinafter referred to as “MFN”) customs duty rate applied on 1 January 2005.  2. If at any moment a Party reduces its MFN customs duty rates for one or more goods covered by this Agreement, that duty rate shall apply if and for as long as it is lower than the customs duty rate calculated in accordance with the tariff elimination schedule set out in Annexes IV, V and VI.  During the application of the reduced MFN rate, the Parties shall consult upon request with a view to continuing the elimination schedule based on the reduced MFN customs duty rate.  3. The reduced customs duty rates calculated in accordance with Annexes IV, V and VI shall be applied rounded to the first decimal place.   A2.5  Import and Export Restrictions  1. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement, all import or export prohibitions or restrictions on trade in goods between the Parties, other than customs duties and taxes, whether made effective through quotas, import or export licenses or other measures, shall be eliminated on all products of each Party, except as specified in Annex V.   2. No new measures as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be introduced.   
                                                                          IXA2.6  National Treatment  The Parties shall apply national treatment in accordance with Article III of the GATT 1994, including its interpretative notes, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement.   A2.7  Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of sanitary and phytosanitary measures shall be governed by the WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures.  2. The Parties shall exchange names and addresses of contact points with sanitary and phytosanitary expertise in order to facilitate technical consultations and the exchange of information.    A2.8  Technical Regulations  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment shall be governed by the WTO Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade (hereinafter referred to as “the TBT Agreement”), which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement.   2. The Parties shall strengthen their cooperation in the field of technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment with a view to increasing the mutual understanding of their respective systems and facilitating access to their respective markets. To this end, they shall in particular cooperate in:  (a) reinforcing the role of international standards as a basis for technical regulations, including conformity assessment procedures;   (b) promoting the accreditation of conformity assessment bodies on the basis of relevant Standards and Guides of the International Standards Organisation (ISO)/International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC); and  (c) promoting the mutual acceptance of conformity assessment results of bodies referred to in paragraph 2(b) which have been recognised under an appropriate multilateral agreement between their respective accreditation systems  or bodies. 
                                                                          X 3. The Parties shall, within the context of this Article, expeditiously broaden the exchange of information and give favourable consideration to any written request for consultation.  4. The Parties recognise that a broad range of mechanisms exists to facilitate the acceptance in a Party’s territory of the results of conformity assessment procedures conducted in another Party’s territory, including:  (a) agreements on mutual acceptance of the results of conformity assessment procedures with respect to specified regulations conducted by bodies located in the territory of the other Party;  (b) accreditation procedures for qualifying conformity assessment bodies;  (c) government designation of conformity assessment bodies;  (d) recognition by one Party of the results of conformity assessments performed in another Party’s territory;  (e) voluntary arrangements between conformity assessment bodies in each Party’s territory; and  (f) the importing Party’s acceptance of a supplier’s declaration of conformity.  The Parties shall, at the latest three years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, assess in the Joint Committee referred to in Article 8.1 (hereinafter referred to as the “Joint Committee”) progress with regard to the acceptance of the results of conformity assessment between them and, to the extent necessary, agree on further steps.   5. Without prejudice to paragraph 1, the Parties agree to exchange information and to hold expert consultations to address any matter that may arise from the application of specific technical regulations, standards and conformity assessment procedures and which according to Korea or one or more of the EFTA States has created or is likely to create an obstacle to trade between the Parties, with a view to working out an appropriate solution in conformity with the TBT Agreement. The Joint Committee shall be informed of such consultations.   A2.9  Subsidies and Countervailing Measures  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties relating to subsidies and countervailing measures shall be governed by Articles VI and XVI of the GATT 1994 and the WTO 
                                                                          XIAgreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, except as provided for in paragraph 2.  2. Before a Party initiates an investigation to determine the existence, degree and effect of any alleged subsidy in Korea or in an EFTA State, as provided for in Article 11 of the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures, the Party considering initiating an investigation shall notify in writing the Party whose goods are subject to investigation and allow for a 30 day period with a view to finding a mutually acceptable solution. The consultations shall take place in the Joint Committee if any Party so requests within ten days from the receipt of the notification.   A2.10  Anti-Dumping  1. The Parties retain their rights and obligations under Article VI of the GATT 1994 and the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 (hereinafter referred to as the “WTO Agreement on Anti-Dumping”), subject to the following:   (a)  The Parties shall endeavour to refrain from initiating anti-dumping procedures against each other. To this end, when a Party receives a properly documented application and before initiating an investigation under the WTO Agreement on Anti-Dumping, the Party shall notify in writing the other Party whose goods are allegedly being dumped and allow for consultations with a view to finding a mutually acceptable solution. The outcome of the consultations shall be communicated to the other Parties.   (b) If a Party takes a decision to impose an anti-dumping duty pursuant to Article 9.1 of the WTO Agreement on Anti-Dumping, the Party taking such a decision shall apply the “lesser duty” rule by imposing a duty which is less than the dumping margin where such lesser duty would be adequate to remove the injury to the domestic industry.  2. Five years after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall in the Joint Committee review whether there is need to maintain the possibility to take anti-dumping measures between them. If the Parties decide, after the first review, to maintain the possibility they shall thereafter conduct biennial reviews of this matter in the Joint Committee.   A2.11  Bilateral Safeguard Measures  
                                                                          XII1. Where, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a customs duty under this Agreement, any product originating in a Party is being imported into the territory of another Party in such increased quantities, in absolute terms or relative to domestic production, and under such conditions as to constitute a substantial cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry of like or directly competitive products in the territory of the importing Party, the importing Party may take emergency measures to the minimum extent necessary to remedy or prevent the injury, subject to the provisions of the following paragraphs of this Article.  2. Emergency measures shall only be taken upon clear evidence that increased imports have caused or are threatening to cause serious injury pursuant to an investigation in accordance with the procedures laid down in the WTO Agreement on Safeguards.  3. The Party intending to take an emergency action under this Article shall immediately, and in any case before taking a measure, make notification to the other Parties and the Joint Committee. The notification shall contain all pertinent information, which shall include evidence of serious injury or threat thereof caused by increased imports, precise description of the product involved, and the proposed measure, proposed date of introduction, expected duration and timetable for the progressive removal of the measure. A Party that may be affected by the measure shall be offered compensation in the form of substantially equivalent trade liberalization in relation to the imports from any such Party.  4. If the conditions in paragraph 1 are met, the importing Party may:  (a) suspend the further reduction of any rate of customs duty provided for under this Agreement for the product; or  (b) increase the rate of customs duty for the product to a level not to exceed the lesser of:   (i) the MFN rate of duty applied at the time the action is taken; or  (ii) the MFN rate of duty applied on the day immediately preceding the date of the entry into force of this Agreement.   5.  Emergency measures shall be taken for a period not exceeding one year. In very exceptional circumstances, after review by the Joint Committee, measures may be taken up to a total maximum period of three years. No measures shall be applied to the import of a product, which has previously been subject to such a measure, for a period of, at least, three years since the expiry of the measure.  6. The Joint Committee shall, within 30 days from the date of notification, examine the information provided under paragraph 3 in order to facilitate a mutually acceptable resolution of the matter. In the absence of such resolution, the importing Party may adopt a measure pursuant to paragraph 4 to remedy the problem, and, in the absence of mutually agreed compensation, the Party against whose product the measure 
                                                                          XIIIis taken may take compensatory action. The safeguard measure and the compensatory action shall be immediately notified to the other Parties and the Joint Committee. In the selection of the safeguard measure and the compensatory action, priority must be given to the action which least disturbs the functioning of this Agreement. The compensatory action shall normally consist of suspension of concessions having substantially equivalent trade effects or concessions substantially equivalent to the value of the additional duties expected to result from the emergency action. The Party taking such action shall apply the action only for the minimum period necessary to achieve the substantially equivalent trade effects and in any event, only while the measure under paragraph 4 is being applied.  7. Upon the termination of the measure, the rate of customs duty shall be the rate which would have been in effect but for the measure.  8. In critical circumstances, where delay would cause damage which would be difficult to repair, a Party may take a provisional emergency measure pursuant to a preliminary determination that there is clear evidence that increased imports constitute a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to the domestic industry. The Party intending to take such a measure shall immediately notify the other Parties and the Joint Committee thereof. Within 30 days of the date of the notification, the pertinent procedures set out in paragraphs 2 to 6, including for compensatory action, shall be initiated. Any compensation shall be based on the total period of application of the provisional emergency measure and of the emergency measure.   9. Any provisional measures shall be terminated within 200 days at the latest. The period of application of any such provisional measure shall be counted as part of the duration of the measure set out in paragraph 4 and any extension thereof. Any tariff increases shall be promptly refunded if the investigation described in paragraph 2 does not result in a finding that the conditions of paragraph 1 are met.  10. Five years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall in the Joint Committee review whether there is need to maintain the possibility to take safeguard measures between them. If the Parties decide, after the first review to maintain the possibility, they shall thereafter conduct biennial review of this matter in the Joint Committee.   A2.12  Balance-of-Payments Difficulties  1. The Parties shall endeavour to avoid the imposition of restrictive measures for balance-of-payments purposes.  2. A Party in serious balance-of-payments difficulties, or under imminent threat thereof, may, in accordance with the conditions established under the GATT 1994 and the WTO Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments Provisions, adopt trade restrictive measures, which shall be of limited duration and non-discriminatory, and may not go 
                                                                          XIVbeyond what is necessary to remedy the balance-of-payments situation. The relevant provisions of the GATT 1994 and the WTO Understanding on the Balance-of-Payments Provisions are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement.  3. The Party introducing a measure under this Article shall promptly notify the other Parties and the Joint Committee thereof.   A2.13  Exceptions and other Rights and Obligations  The following rights and obligations of the Parties shall be governed by the corresponding Articles of the GATT 1994, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Agreement:  (a) in respect of state trading enterprises, by Article XVII and the Understanding on the Interpretation of Article XVII;  (b) in respect of general exceptions, by Article XX; and  (c) in respect of security exceptions, by Article XXI.    CHAPTER 3  TRADE IN SERVICES    A3.1  Scope and Coverage  1. This Chapter applies to measures affecting trade in services taken by central, regional or local governments and authorities as well as by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities. It applies to measures in all services sectors except as provided for in Article 4.1. It does not apply to measures affecting air traffic rights or measures affecting services directly related to the exercise of air traffic rights, except as provided for in paragraph 3 of the GATS Annex on Air Transport Services.  2. Articles 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 shall not apply to laws, regulations or requirements governing the procurement by government agencies of services purchased for governmental purposes and not for commercial resale or for use in the supply of services for commercial sale.   A3.2 
                                                                          XV Incorporation of Provisions from the GATS  Wherever a provision of this Chapter provides that a provision of the GATS is incorporated into and made part of this Chapter, the meaning of the terms used in the GATS provision shall be understood as follows:  (a) “Member” shall mean “Party”, except that “among Members” shall mean “among Members of the WTO”;  (b) “Schedules” shall mean the Schedules referred to in Article 3.16 and contained in Annex VII; and  (c) “Specific Commitment” shall mean a specific commitment in a Schedule referred to in Article 3.16.   A3.3  Definitions  For purposes of this Chapter:  1. The following definitions of Article I of the GATS are incorporated into and made part of this Chapter:   (a) “trade in services”;   (b) “services”; and   (c) “a service supplied in the exercise of governmental authority”.  2. “Service supplier” means any person that supplies, or seeks to supply, a service.  3. “Natural person of a Party” is, under its legislation, a national of that Party, or a permanent resident of that Party if that Party accords substantially the same treatment to its permanent residents as to its nationals in respect of measures affecting trade in services.  4. “Juridical person of a Party” means a juridical person which is either:                                                     
                                                                          XVI (a) constituted or otherwise organised under the law of that Party, and  (i) is engaged in substantive business operations in the territory of any Party; or  (ii) is engaged in substantive business operations in the territory of any Member of the WTO and is owned or controlled by natural persons of that Party or by juridical persons that meet the conditions of paragraph 4(a)(i); or  (b) in the case of the supply of a service through commercial presence, owned or controlled by:  (i) natural persons of that Party; or  (ii) juridical persons that meet the conditions of paragraph 4(a).  5. The following definitions of Article XXVIII of the GATS are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter:   (a) “measure”;    (b) “supply of a service”;   (c) “measures by Members affecting trade in services”;    (d) “commercial presence”;    (e) “sector” of a service;    (f) “service of another Member”;    (g) “monopoly supplier of a service”;   (h) “service consumer”;   (i) “person”;   (j)  “juridical person”;  (k) “owned”, “controlled” and “affiliated”; and  (l) “direct taxes”.   A3.4 
                                                                          XVII Most Favoured Nation Treatment  1. Without prejudice to measures taken in accordance with Article VII of the GATS, and except as provided for in its List of MFN-exemptions contained in Annex VIII, a Party shall accord immediately and unconditionally, in respect of all measures affecting the supply of services, to services and service suppliers of another Party treatment no less favourable than the treatment it accords to like services and service suppliers of any non-Party.  2. Treatment granted under other agreements concluded by one of the Parties and notified under Article V or Article V bis of the GATS shall not be subject to paragraph 1.  3. If a Party enters into an agreement of the type referred to in paragraph 2, it shall upon request from another Party afford adequate opportunity to that Party to negotiate the benefits granted therein.  4. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of advantages accorded to adjacent countries shall be governed by paragraph 3 of Article II of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.5  Market Access  Commitments on market access shall be governed by Article XVI of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.6  National Treatment  Commitments on national treatment shall be governed by Article XVII of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.7  Additional Commitments  Additional commitments shall be governed by Article XVIII of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.8 
                                                                          XVIII Domestic Regulation   The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of domestic regulation shall be governed by Article VI of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.9  Recognition  1. Where a Party recognises, by agreement or arrangement, the education or experience obtained, requirements met or licenses or certifications granted in the territory of a non-Party, that Party shall accord another Party adequate opportunity to negotiate its accession to such an agreement or arrangement, whether existing or future, or to negotiate a comparable agreement or arrangement with it. Where a Party accords recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for another Party to demonstrate that the education or experience obtained, requirements met or licenses or certifications granted in the territory of that other Party should also be recognised.  2. Any such agreement or arrangement or autonomous recognition shall be in conformity with the relevant provisions of the WTO Agreement and, in particular, Article VII of the GATS.  3. Annex IX applies to mutual recognition of, inter alia, education or experience, qualifications, licenses, certification or accreditation of service suppliers.   A3.10  Movement of Natural Persons  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of the movement of natural persons of a Party supplying services shall be governed by the GATS Annex on Movement of Natural Persons Supplying Services, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.11  Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of monopolies and exclusive service suppliers shall be governed by paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Article VIII of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   
                                                                          XIXA3.12  Business Practices  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of business practices shall be governed by Article IX of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.13  Payments and Transfers  1. Subject to its specific commitments and except under the circumstances envisaged in Article 3.14, a Party shall not apply restrictions on international transfers and payments for current transactions relating to the supply of a service with another Party.  2. Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the rights and obligations of the Parties under the Articles of the Agreement of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), including the use of exchange actions which are in conformity with the Articles of the Agreement of the IMF, provided that a Party shall not impose restrictions on capital transactions inconsistently with its specific commitments, except under Article 3.14 or at the request of the IMF.   A3.14  Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments  1. The Parties shall endeavour to avoid the imposition of restrictions to safeguard the balance of payments.  2. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of such restrictions shall be governed by paragraphs 1 to 3 of Article XII of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.  3. A Party adopting or maintaining such restrictions shall promptly notify the Joint Committee thereof.   A3.15  Exceptions  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of general and security exceptions shall be governed by Articles XIV and XIV bis of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter. 
                                                                          XX  A3.16  Schedules of Specific Commitments  1. Each Party shall set out in a Schedule the specific commitments it undertakes under Articles 3.5, 3.6 and 3.7. With respect to sectors where such specific commitments are undertaken, each Schedule shall specify the elements set forth in paragraphs (a) to (d) of paragraph 1 of Article XX of the GATS.   2. Measures inconsistent with both Articles 3.5 and 3.6 shall be dealt with as provided for in paragraph 2 of Article XX of the GATS.   3. The Parties’ Schedules of specific commitments are set out in Annex VII.  4. Particular aspects of market access, national treatment and additional commitments applicable to telecommunications services and to co-production of broadcasting programmes are dealt with in Annexes X and XI.   A3.17  Modification of Schedules  The Parties shall, upon written request by a Party, hold consultations to consider any modification or withdrawal of a specific commitment in its Schedule of specific commitments. The consultations shall be held within three months after the requesting Party made its request. In the consultations, the Parties shall aim to ensure that a general level of mutually advantageous commitments not less favourable to trade than that provided for in the Schedule of specific commitments prior to such consultations is maintained. Modifications of Schedules are subject to the procedures set out in Article 8.1.   A3.18  Transparency  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of transparency shall be governed by paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article III and by Article III bis of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A3.19  Review  
                                                                          XXIWith the objective of further liberalisation of trade in services between them, the Parties commit themselves to review every two years their Schedules of specific commitments and their Lists of MFN-exemptions. The first review shall take place not later than three years after the entry into force of this Agreement.   A3.20  Annexes  The following Annexes attached to this Agreement form an integral part of this Chapter:  - Annex VII (Schedules of Specific Commitments); - Annex VIII (Lists of MFN-exemptions); - Annex IX (Mutual Recognition); - Annex X (Telecommunications Services); and - Annex XI (Co-production of Broadcasting Programmes).    CHAPTER 4  FINANCIAL SERVICES    A4.1  Scope and Coverage  1. This Chapter applies to measures affecting trade in financial services taken by central, regional or local governments and authorities as well as by non-governmental bodies in the exercise of powers delegated by central, regional or local governments or authorities.  2. Articles 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6 shall not apply to laws, regulations or requirements governing the procurement by government agencies of financial services purchased for governmental purposes and not for commercial resale or for use in the supply of services for commercial sale.  3. Chapter 3 applies to measures described in paragraph 1 where this is specifically provided for by this Chapter.    A4.2  Incorporation of Provisions from the GATS  Article 3.2 shall apply to this Chapter. 
                                                                          XXII  A4.3  Definitions  1. Except for its paragraph 1(c), Article 3.3 shall apply to this Chapter.  2. The following definitions of the GATS Annex on Financial Services are incorporated into and made part of this Chapter:  (a) “services supplied in the exercise of governmental authority” (paragraphs 1 (b) and (c) of the Annex);  (b) “a financial service” (paragraph 5 (a) of the Annex);  (c) “financial service supplier” (paragraph 5 (b) of the Annex); and   (d) “public entity” (paragraph 5 (c) of the Annex).   A 4.4  Most Favoured Nation Treatment  Article 3.4 shall apply to this Chapter.   A4.5   Market Access  Commitments on market access shall be governed by Article XVI of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A 4.6  National Treatment  1. Commitments on national treatment shall be governed by Article XVII of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.  2. In addition, under terms and conditions that accord national treatment, each Party shall grant to financial service suppliers of another Party established in its territory access to payment and clearing systems operated by public entities and to official funding and refinancing facilities available in the normal course of ordinary 
                                                                          XXIIIbusiness. This paragraph is not intended to confer access to a Party’s lender of last resort facilities.  3. Where membership or participation in, or access to, a self-regulatory body, securities or futures exchange or market, clearing agency, or any other organisation or association is required by a Party in order for financial service suppliers of any other Party to supply financial services on an equal basis with financial service suppliers of the Party, or where the Party provides directly or indirectly such entities with privileges or advantages in supplying financial services, the Party shall ensure that such entities accord national treatment to financial service suppliers of any other Party established in its territory.   A4.7  Additional Commitments  Additional commitments shall be governed by Article XVIII of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A4.8  Domestic Regulation  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of domestic regulation shall be governed by Article VI of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.  2. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to prevent a Party from adopting or maintaining reasonable measures for prudential reasons, including for:  (a) the protection of investors, depositors, policy-holders, policy-claimants, persons to whom a fiduciary duty is owed by a financial service supplier, or any similar financial market participants; or  (b) ensuring the integrity and stability of a Party's financial system.  Where such measures do not conform with the provisions of this Chapter, they shall not be used as a means of avoiding the Party’s commitments or obligations under such provisions. Such measures shall not be more burdensome than necessary to achieve their aim.  3. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to require a Party to disclose information relating to the affairs and accounts of individual consumers or any confidential or proprietary information in the possession of public entities.   
                                                                          XXIVA4.9  Recognition  1. Article 3.9 shall apply to this Chapter.  2. In addition, where a Party recognises prudential measures of a non-Party in determining how the Party’s measures relating to financial services shall be applied, that Party shall afford adequate opportunity for another Party to negotiate its accession to such agreement or arrangement, or to negotiate a comparable agreement or arrangement with it, under circumstances in which there would be equivalent regulation, oversight, implementation of such regulation and, if appropriate, procedures concerning the sharing of information between the parties to the agreement or arrangement. Where a Party accords such recognition autonomously, it shall afford adequate opportunity for another Party to demonstrate that such circumstances exist.   A4.10  Movement of Natural Persons  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of the movement of natural persons of a Party supplying services shall be governed by the GATS Annex on Movement of Natural Persons Supplying Services, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A4.11  Monopolies and Exclusive Service Suppliers  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of monopolies and exclusive service suppliers shall be governed by paragraphs 1, 2 and 5 of Article VIII of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.    A4.12  Business Practices  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of business practices shall be governed by Article IX of the GATS, which is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A4.13  Payments and Transfers 
                                                                          XXV Article 3.13 shall apply to this Chapter.   A4.14  Restrictions to Safeguard the Balance of Payments  Article 3.14 shall apply to this Chapter.   A4.15  Exceptions  The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of general and security exceptions shall be governed by Articles XIV and XIV bis of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.   A4.16  Schedules of Specific Commitments  Each Party shall set out in its schedule referred to in Article 3.16 the specific commitments it undertakes for services defined under paragraph 2(b) of Article 4.3 in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 of Article 3.16.    A4.17  Modification of Schedules  Article 3.17 shall apply to this Chapter.   A4.18  Transparency  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of transparency shall be governed by paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article III and by Article III bis of the GATS, which are hereby incorporated into and made part of this Chapter.  2. In addition, each Party commits to promote regulatory transparency in financial services. Accordingly, the Parties undertake to consult, as appropriate, with the goal of promoting objective and transparent regulatory processes in each Party, taking into account:  
                                                                          XXVI (a) the work undertaken by the Parties in the GATS and the Parties’ work in other fora relating to trade in financial services; and   (b) the importance of regulatory transparency of identifiable policy objectives and clear and consistently applied regulatory processes that are communicated or otherwise made available to the public.   A4.19  Review  Article 3.19 shall apply to this Chapter.   A4.20  Sub-Committee on Financial Services  1. A Sub-Committee on Financial Services (hereinafter referred to as “the Sub-Committee”) is to be set up under the Joint Committee. The principal representative of each Party shall be from an authority competent for this Agreement or from a financial authority.  2. The mandate of the Sub-Committee shall be:  to supervise the implementation of this Chapter, assess its functioning, and oversee its further elaboration; and  to consider issues regarding financial services that are referred to it by a Party.   3. The Sub-Committee shall meet in conjunction with Joint Committee meetings, or as otherwise agreed upon between the Parties.  4. The Sub-Committee shall be chaired jointly by Korea and one of the EFTA States. It shall act by consensus.   A4.21  Dispute Settlement  1. Relevant Articles in Chapter 9 shall apply to the settlement of disputes arising under this Chapter as modified by this Article.  2. Consultations regarding financial services held pursuant to Chapter 9 shall include officials from an authority competent for this Agreement or from a financial 
                                                                          XXVIIauthority. The Parties shall report the results of their consultations to the Sub-Committee.  3. Article 9.4 shall apply, with the following modifications:  (a) where the Parties to the disputes so agree, the arbitration panel shall be composed entirely of individuals meeting the qualifications in paragraph 4; and   (b) in any other case,  each Party to the dispute may select individuals meeting the qualifications set out in paragraph 7 of Article if the Party complained against invokes Article 4.8, the chair of the panel shall meet the qualifications set out in paragraph 4, unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise4. Unless otherwise provided for in this Chapter, financial services panellists shall:  (a) meet the qualifications set out in Article 9.5; and  (b) have expertise or experience in financial services law or practice, which may include the regulation of financial institutions.  5. With regard to paragraph 5 of Article 9.10, the following shall apply wherever practical. Where the measure under dispute affects:  (a) only the financial services sector, the complaining Party shall first seek to suspend benefits only in the financial services sector;  (b) the financial services sector and any other sector, the complaining Party shall first seek to suspend benefits in the respective sectors and with an effect equivalent to the effect of the measure complained against in each sector; or  (c) only a sector other than the financial services sector, the complaining Party shall seek to avoid suspending benefits in the financial services sector.     CHAPTER 5  COMPETITION    A5.1  
                                                                          XXVIIIRules of Competition concerning Enterprises  1. The Parties recognise that anti-competitive business conduct may frustrate the benefits arising from this Agreement. Such conduct is therefore incompatible with the proper functioning of this Agreement in so far as it may affect trade between Korea and an EFTA State.   2. For the purposes of this Agreement, “anti-competitive business conduct”:   (a) means all agreements between enterprises, decisions by associations of enterprises and concerted practices between enterprises, as well as abuse by one or more enterprises of a dominant position in the territories of the Parties as a whole or in a substantial part thereof, which have, as their object or effect, the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition; and  (b) may occur with regard to trade in goods or services. Such conduct may be effected by private or public enterprises, or by enterprises to which special or exclusive rights have been granted unless the particular tasks assigned to them are obstructed.  3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not be construed to create any direct obligations for enterprises.  4. The Parties undertake to apply their respective competition laws with a view to removing anti-competitive business conduct. To that end, they shall notify each other of relevant enforcement activities and exchange information. No Party shall be required to disclose information that is confidential according to its laws.  5. Upon request, competition authorities and/or other relevant authorities of the Parties shall enter into consultations in order to facilitate the removal of anti-competitive business conduct. The Party addressed shall accord full and sympathetic consideration to that request.   6. Upon request, consultations shall also be held in the Joint Committee if a Party considers that an anti-competitive business conduct in the territory of another Party continues to affect trade between them. Consultations shall be held within 30 days of receipt of the request. The Parties concerned shall give to the Joint Committee all the support and information in order for the Joint Committee to examine the case and to assist the Parties concerned in removing the conduct objected to and, where appropriate, in re-establishing the balance of rights and obligations under this Agreement.     CHAPTER 6  GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT    
                                                                          XXIXA6.1  Scope and Coverage  1. The rights and obligations of the Parties in respect of government procurement shall be governed by the WTO Agreement on Government Procurement (hereinafter referred to as “the GPA”).  2. The Parties agree to co-operate in the Joint Committee with the aim of increasing the mutual understanding of their respective government procurement systems, and achieving further liberalisation and mutual opening up of their government procurement markets.   A6.2  Exchange of Information  To facilitate communication between the Parties on any matter regarding government procurement, contact points, responsible for providing information on the rules and regulations in the field of government procurement, are listed in Annex XII.   A6.3  Further Negotiations  1. Upon conclusion of bilateral negotiations between the Parties on further liberalisation of their respective government procurement markets in the framework of the negotiations aimed at amending the GPA, such liberalisation, including provisions from the agreement amending the main part of the GPA in so far as they are relevant for these additional liberalisations, shall be included in this Agreement. The Joint Committee shall take a decision to this effect within three months after conclusion of these bilateral negotiations. This decision shall be subject to ratification or acceptance by the Parties.  2. If a Party grants to a non-Party, after the entry into force of this Agreement, additional benefits with regard to the access to its government procurement markets, this Party shall agree to enter into negotiations on the possible extension of these benefits to another Party on a reciprocal basis.    CHAPTER 7   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY    A7.1 
                                                                          XXX Protection of Intellectual Property  1. The Parties shall grant and ensure adequate, effective and non-discriminatory protection of intellectual property rights, and provide for measures for the enforcement of those rights against infringement, including counterfeiting and piracy, in accordance with this Article as well as Annex XIII and the international agreements referred to therein.  2. The Parties shall accord to each other’s nationals treatment no less favourable than the treatment they accord to their own nationals. Exemptions from this obligation must be in accordance with the substantive provisions of Articles 3 and 5 of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (hereinafter referred to as “the TRIPS Agreement”).  3. With regard to the protection of intellectual property, the Parties shall, in accordance with the TRIPS Agreement, in particular Articles 4 and 5 thereof, grant to each other’s nationals treatment no less favourable than that accorded to nationals of any third State.  4. The Parties agree, upon request of any Party made to the Joint Committee, and subject to consensus of the Parties, to review the provisions on intellectual property of this Agreement as appropriate, with a view to avoiding or remedying trade distortions caused by actual levels of protection of intellectual property rights, and to promoting intellectual property that facilitates trade and investment relations between the Parties.   A 7.2  Scope of Intellectual Property  “Intellectual property” refers in particular to copyright, including computer programmes and compilations of data, as well as related rights, trademarks for goods and services, geographical indications, including appellations of origin, industrial designs, patents, plant varieties, layout-designs/topographies of integrated circuits, as well as undisclosed information.   A 7.3  Co-operation in the Field of Intellectual Property  1. The Parties, recognising the growing importance of intellectual property rights as a factor of social, economic and cultural development, shall enhance their co-operation in this field.  2. The Parties agree, if circumstances permit, to co-operate on activities relating to the identified or to future international conventions on harmonisation, administration 
                                                                          XXXIand enforcement of intellectual property rights and on activities in international organisations, such as the WTO and the Word Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), as well as to share experiences and exchange information on relations of the Parties with third countries on matters concerning intellectual property.  3. The Parties, pursuant to paragraph 1, may co-operate in:  (a) programmes for personnel interchange, including for examiners, between the Parties;  (b) the field of information systems on intellectual property;  (c) the promotion of mutual understanding of each Party’s policy, activities and experiences in the field of intellectual property; and  (d) the promotion of education on intellectual property and invention awareness.    CHAPTER 8   INSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS    A8.1  The Joint Committee  1.      The Parties hereby establish the Korea-EFTA Joint Committee.  It shall be composed of representatives of the Parties, which shall be headed by Ministers or by senior officials delegated by them for this purpose.  2. The Joint Committee shall:  (a) supervise and review the implementation of this Agreement, inter alia by means of a comprehensive review of the application of the provisions of this Agreement, with due regard to any specific reviews contained in this Agreement;   (b) keep under review the possibility of further removal of barriers to trade and other restrictive measures concerning trade between Korea and the EFTA States;   (c) oversee the further development of this Agreement;   (d) supervise the work of all sub-committees and working groups established under this Agreement;  
                                                                          XXXII(e) endeavour to resolve disputes that may arise regarding the interpretation or application of this Agreement; and  (f) consider any other matter that may affect the operation of this Agreement.  3. The Joint Committee may decide to set up such sub-committees and working groups as it considers necessary to assist it in accomplishing its tasks. Except where otherwise provided for in this Agreement, the sub-committees and working groups shall work under a mandate established by the Joint Committee.  4. The Joint Committee shall take decisions as provided for in this Agreement, and may make recommendations, by consensus.  5. The Joint Committee shall meet within one year of the entry into force of this Agreement. Thereafter, it shall meet whenever necessary upon mutual agreement but normally every two years.  Its meetings shall be chaired jointly by Korea and one of the EFTA States.  The Joint Committee shall establish its rules of procedure.   6. Each Party may request at any time, through a notice in writing to the other Parties, that a special meeting of the Joint Committee be held. Such a meeting shall take place within 30 days of receipt of the request, unless the Parties agree otherwise.  7. The Joint Committee may decide to amend the Annexes and Appendices to this Agreement.  Subject to paragraph 8, it may set a date for the entry into force of such decisions.  8. If a representative of a Party in the Joint Committee has accepted a decision subject to the fulfilment of constitutional requirements, the decision shall enter into force on the date that the last Party notifies that its internal requirements have been fulfilled, unless the decision itself specifies a later date. The Joint Committee may decide that the decision shall enter into force for those Parties that have fulfilled their internal requirements, provided that Korea is one of those Parties.  A Party may apply a decision of the Joint Committee provisionally until it enters into force, subject to the constitutional requirements of this Party.    A8.2  Secretariat  1. The Parties hereby designate the following competent organs to serve as their respective secretariats for purposes of this Agreement:  (a) in the case of Korea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade; and  (b) in the case of the EFTA States, the EFTA Secretariat.  
                                                                          XXXIII2. Without prejudice to Article 10.7 and unless otherwise agreed by the Parties or stated in this Agreement, all official communications or notifications to or by a Party for purposes of this Agreement shall be made through its secretariat.    CHAPTER 9  DISPUTE SETTLEMENT    A9.1  Scope and Coverage  1. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply with respect to the avoidance or the settlement of any dispute arising from this Agreement, taking into account the modalities set out in Article 4.21 of this Agreement and Article 25 of Annex I.  2. Disputes on the same matter arising under both this Agreement and the WTO Agreement may be settled in either forum at the discretion of the complaining Party. The forum thus selected shall be used to the exclusion of the other.  3. For purposes of this Article, dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO Agreement or this Agreement are deemed to be initiated upon a request for a panel by a Party.  4. Before a Party initiates dispute settlement proceedings under the WTO Agreement against another Party or Parties as regards a matter arising under both this Agreement and the WTO Agreement, it shall notify all the Parties of its intention.  5. The arbitration rules provided for in Articles 9.4 to 9.10 do not apply to Articles 2.7, 2.9, 2.10 and Chapter 5.   A9.2  Good Offices, Conciliation or Mediation  1. Good offices, conciliation and mediation are procedures that are undertaken voluntarily if the Parties involved so agree. They may begin at any time and be terminated at any time.  2. Proceedings involving good offices, conciliation and mediation shall be confidential and without prejudice to the Parties’ rights in any other proceedings.    A9.3  
                                                                          XXXIVConsultations  1. The Parties shall at all times endeavour to agree on the interpretation and application of this Agreement, and shall make every attempt through co-operation and consultations to arrive at a mutually satisfactory resolution of any matter that might affect its operation.  2. Any one or more of the EFTA States may request in writing consultations with Korea and vice-versa whenever a Party considers that a measure applied by the Party or Parties to which the request is made is inconsistent with this Agreement or that any benefit accruing to it directly or indirectly under this Agreement is impaired or nullified by such measure.  Consultations shall take place in the Joint Committee unless the Party or Parties making or receiving the request for consultations disagree.  3. Consultations shall be held within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for consultations. Consultations on urgent matters, including those on perishable agricultural goods, shall commence within 15 days from the receipt of the request for consultations.  4. The Parties involved in the consultations shall provide sufficient information to enable a full examination of how the measure or other matter might affect the operation of this Agreement and treat any confidential or proprietary information exchanged in the course of consultations in the same manner as the Party providing the information.   5. The consultations shall be confidential and without prejudice to the rights of the Parties involved in any further proceedings.   6. The Parties involved in the consultations shall inform the other Parties of any mutually agreed resolution of the matter.    A9.4  Establishment of Arbitration Panel  1.  If the matter has not been resolved within 60 days, or 30 days in relation to a matter of urgency, after the date of receipt of the request for consultations, it may be referred to arbitration by one or more of the Parties involved by means of a written request addressed to the Party or Parties complained against. A copy of this request shall also be communicated to all Parties so that each Party may determine whether to participate in the dispute.   2. Where more than one Party requests the establishment of an arbitration panel relating to the same matter, a single arbitration panel shall be established to examine these complaints whenever feasible.                                                    
                                                                          XXXV 3. A request for arbitration shall give the reason for the complaint including the identification of the measure at issue and an indication of the legal basis of the complaint.   A9.5  Arbitration Panel   1. The arbitration panel referred to in Article 9.4 shall consist of three members.    2. Each Party to the dispute shall appoint one member of the arbitration panel within 15 days of the receipt of the request under Article 9.4.   3. The Parties to the dispute shall agree on the appointment of the third member within 30 days of the appointment of the second member.  The member thus appointed shall chair the arbitration panel.  4. If all three members have not been designated or appointed within 45 days from the date of receipt of the request referred to in Article 9.4, the necessary designations shall be made at the request of any Party to the dispute by the Director-General of the WTO within a further 30 days.  Where the designation of the members of the arbitration panel by the Director-General of the WTO is not made within the specified period, the Parties to the dispute shall within the next ten days exchange lists comprising four nominees each who shall not be nationals of either Party. The panel members shall then be appointed in the presence of both Parties by lot from the lists within ten days from the date of exchange of their respective lists.  If a Party fails to submit its list of four nominees, the panel members shall be appointed by lot from the list already submitted by the other Party.  5. The chair of the arbitration panel shall not be a national of any of the Parties, nor have his or her usual place of residence in the territory of any of the Parties, nor be employed or previously have been employed by any of the Parties, nor have dealt with the case in any capacity.  6.  If a member dies, withdraws or is removed, a replacement shall be selected within 15 days in accordance with the selection procedure followed to select him or her.  In such a case, any time period applicable to the arbitration panel proceedings shall be suspended for a period beginning on the date the member dies, withdraws or is removed and ending on the date the replacement is selected.   7.  Any person appointed as a member of the arbitration panel shall have expertise or experience in law, international trade, other matters covered by this Agreement or in the resolution of disputes arising under international trade agreements. A member shall be chosen strictly on the basis of objectivity, reliability, sound judgement and independence and shall conduct himself or herself according to these characteristics throughout the course of the arbitration proceedings. If a Party believes that a member 
                                                                          XXXVIis in violation of the bases stated above, the Parties shall consult and if they agree, the member shall be removed and a new member shall be appointed in accordance with this Article, and following the procedure outlined in paragraph 6.  8.   The date of establishment of the arbitration panel shall be the date on which the chair is appointed.   A9.6  Procedures of the Arbitration Panel  1. Unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise, the arbitration panel proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the Model Rules of Procedure that shall be adopted at the first meeting of the Joint Committee. Pending the adoption of those rules, the arbitration panel shall regulate its own procedures, unless the Parties to the dispute agree otherwise.   2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, for all arbitration panel proceedings the procedures shall ensure that:   (a) the Parties to the dispute have the right to at least one hearing before the arbitration panel as well as the opportunity to provide initial and rebuttal written submissions;    (b) the Parties to the dispute be invited to all the hearings held by the arbitration panel;   (c) all submissions and comments made to the arbitration panel be available to the Parties to the dispute, subject to any requirements of confidentiality; and  (d) hearings, deliberations, initial report and all written submissions to and communications with the arbitration panel be confidential.   3. Unless the Parties to the dispute otherwise agree within 20 days from the date of delivery of the request for the establishment of the arbitration panel, the terms of reference shall be:   “To examine, in the light of the relevant provisions of this Agreement, the matter referred to in the request for the establishment of an arbitration panel pursuant to Article 9.4 and to make findings of law and fact together with the reasons therefor as well as recommendations, if any, for the resolution of the dispute.”  4. At the request of a Party to the dispute or on its own initiative, the arbitration panel may seek scientific information and technical advice from experts as it deems appropriate.  
                                                                          XXXVII5. The arbitration panel shall make its ruling based on the provisions of this Agreement, applied and interpreted in accordance with the rules of interpretation of public international law.   6. Decisions of the arbitration panel shall be taken by a majority of its members. Any member may furnish separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed.  No arbitration panel may disclose which members are associated with majority or minority opinions.   7. The expenses of the arbitration panel, including the remuneration of its members, shall be borne by the Parties to the dispute in equal shares.   A9.7  Withdrawal of Complaint  A complaining Party may withdraw its complaint at any time before the initial report has been issued. Such withdrawal is without prejudice to its right to introduce a new complaint regarding the same issue at a later point in time.    A9.8  Initial Report  1. The arbitration panel shall present to the Parties to the dispute an initial report within 90 days from the date of the establishment of the arbitration panel.  2. The arbitration panel shall base its report on the submissions and arguments of the Parties to the dispute and on any scientific information and technical advice obtained pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 9.6.   3. A Party to the dispute may submit written comments to the arbitration panel on the initial report within 14 days of presentation of the report.   4. In such an event, and after considering the written comments, the arbitration panel, on its own initiative or at the request of a Party to the dispute, may:  (a) request the views of any of the Parties to the dispute;  (b) reconsider its report; and/or  (c) make any further examination that it considers appropriate.    A9.9  
                                                                          XXXVIIIFinal Report  1. The arbitration panel shall present to the Parties to the dispute the final report, containing the matters referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 9.8, including any separate opinions on matters not unanimously agreed, within 30 days of presentation of the initial report.  2. Unless the Parties to the dispute decide otherwise, the final report shall be published 15 days after it is presented to them.   A9.10  Implementation of Arbitration Panel Reports  1. The final report shall be final and binding on the Parties to the dispute. Each Party to the dispute shall be bound to take the measures involved in carrying out the final report.  2. On receipt of the final report of an arbitration panel, the Parties to the dispute shall agree on:  (a) the means to resolve the dispute, which normally shall conform with the determinations or recommendations, if any, of the arbitration panel; and  (b) the reasonable period of time which may be necessary in order to implement the means to resolve the dispute.  If the Parties to the dispute fail to agree, a Party to the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to determine the length of the reasonable period of time, in the light of the particular circumstances of the case.  The determination of the arbitration panel shall be presented within 15 days from that request.  3. If, in its final report, the arbitration panel determines that a Party has not conformed with its obligations under this Agreement or that a Party’s measure has caused nullification or impairment, the means to resolve the dispute shall be, whenever possible, to eliminate the inconsistency or the nullification or impairment.  4. If the Parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the means to resolve the dispute pursuant to paragraph 2(a) within 30 days of issuance of the final report, or have agreed on the means to resolve the dispute but the Party complained against fails to implement the means within 30 days following the expiration of the reasonable period of time determined in accordance with paragraph 2(b), the Party complained against shall, if so requested by the complaining Party, enter into consultations with a view to agreeing on a mutually acceptable compensation. If no such agreement has been reached within 20 days from the request, the complaining Party shall be entitled to suspend the application of benefits granted under this Agreement that are equivalent to those affected by the measure found to violate this Agreement.  
                                                                          XXXIX5. In considering the benefits to be suspended, the complaining Party shall first seek to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors as that affected by the measure that the arbitration panel has found to violate this Agreement. The complaining Party that considers it is not practicable or effective to suspend benefits in the same sector or sectors may suspend benefits in other sectors.  6. The complaining Party shall notify the other Party of the benefits which it intends to suspend no later than 60 days before the date on which the suspension is due to take effect. Within 15 days from that notification, any of the Parties to the dispute may request the original arbitration panel to rule on whether the benefits which the complaining Party intends to suspend are equivalent to those affected by the measure found to violate this Agreement, and whether the proposed suspension is in accordance with paragraphs 4 and 5. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be given within 45 days from that request. Benefits shall not be suspended until the arbitration panel has issued its ruling.   7. The suspension of benefits shall be temporary and only be applied by the complaining Party until the measure found to violate this Agreement has been withdrawn or amended so as to bring it into conformity with this Agreement, or the Parties to the dispute have reached agreement on a resolution of the dispute.  8. At the request of a Party to the dispute, the original arbitration panel shall rule on the conformity with the final report of any implementing measures adopted after the suspension of benefits and, in light of such ruling, whether the suspension of benefits should be terminated or modified. The ruling of the arbitration panel shall be given within 30 days from the date of that request.   9. The rulings provided for in paragraphs 2 (b), 6 and 8 shall be binding.    A9.11  Other Provisions  Any time period mentioned in this Chapter may be modified by mutual agreement of the Parties involved.     CHAPTER 10 FINAL PROVISIONS    A10.1  Transparency  1. The Parties shall publish their laws, or otherwise make publicly available their 
                                                                          XLlaws, regulations, and administrative rulings and judicial decisions of general application as well as their respective international agreements that may affect the operation of this Agreement.  2. The Parties shall promptly respond to specific questions, and provide upon request information to each other, on matters referred to in paragraph 1.  3. Nothing in this Agreement shall require any Party to disclose confidential information, which would impede law enforcement, otherwise be contrary to the public interest or prejudice the legitimate commercial interests of any economic operator.   4. In the case of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Article and provisions relating to transparency in other Chapters, the latter shall prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.   A10.2  Annexes and Appendices  The Annexes and Appendices to this Agreement form an integral part thereof.    A10.3  Amendments  1. Amendments to this Agreement other than those referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 8.1 shall, after approval by the Joint Committee, be submitted to the Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval, in accordance with each Party’s constitutional requirements.  2. Unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, amendments shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the deposit of the last instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval.  3. The text of the amendments as well as the instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Depositary.   A10.4  Accession  1. Any State, Member of the European Free Trade Association, may accede to this Agreement, provided that the Joint Committee decides to approve its accession, on terms and conditions to be negotiated between the acceding State and the existing Parties.  The instrument of accession shall be deposited with the Depositary. 
                                                                          XLI 2. In relation to an acceding State, this Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the deposit of its instrument of accession or the approval of the terms of accession by the existing Parties, whichever is later.   A10.5  Withdrawal and Termination  1 Any Party may withdraw from this Agreement by means of a written notification to the Depositary.  The withdrawal shall take effect six months after the date on which the notification is received by the Depositary.  2. If Korea withdraws, this Agreement shall expire on the date specified in paragraph 1.   3. In case any EFTA State withdraws from the Convention establishing the European Free Trade Association, this EFTA State shall withdraw from this Agreement in accordance with paragraph 1.    A10.6  Entry into Force  1. This Agreement is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval.  The instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the Depositary.  2. This Agreement shall enter into force on 1 July 2006 in relation to those Signatory States which by then have ratified this Agreement, provided they have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval with the Depositary at least one month before the entry into force, and provided that Korea is among the States that have deposited their instruments.  3. In case this Agreement does not enter into force on 1 July 2006, it shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the latter date on which Korea and at least one EFTA State have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, or approval with the Depositary.  4. In relation to an EFTA State depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval after this Agreement has entered into force, the Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the deposit of its instrument.  5. If its constitutional requirements permit, any EFTA State may apply this Agreement provisionally.  Provisional application of this Agreement under this paragraph shall be notified to the Depositary. 
                                                                          XLII  A10.7  Depositary  The Government of Norway shall act as Depositary.  
                                                                          XLIIIIN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have signed this Agreement.  Done at Hong Kong, this 15th day of December 2005, in a single original in the English language, which shall be deposited with the Government of Norway.  The Depositary shall transmit certified copies to all Signatory States.   For the Republic of Korea    For the Republic of Iceland      ....................................................... .................................................    For the Principality of Liechtenstein     ..........................................................    For the Kingdom of Norway     ..........................................................    For the Swiss Confederation     ..........................................................
                                                                          ANNEX I  REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 2.2  RULES OF ORIGIN AND CUSTOMS PROCEDURES  
   ANNEX I  REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 2.2  RULES OF ORIGIN AND CUSTOMS PROCEDURES   -----   TABLE OF CONTENTS:    SECTION I  RULES OF ORIGIN   TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS  - Article 1 Definitions   TITLE II REQUIREMENTS FOR "ORIGINATING PRODUCTS"  - Article 2 Origin Criteria - Article 3 Cumulation of Origin - Article 4 Wholly Obtained Products - Article 5 Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products - Article 6 Insufficient Working or Processing Operations - Article 7 Unit of Qualification - Article 8 Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools - Article 9 Sets - Article 10 Neutral Elements - Article 11 Segregation of Materials   TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS  - Article 12  Principle of Territoriality - Article 13 Exemptions from the Principle of Territoriality - Article 14 Direct Transport     
                                                                        SECTION II  CUSTOMS PROCEDURES   TITLE IV PROOF OF ORIGIN  - Article 15 Origin Declaration - Article 16 Approved Exporter - Article 17 Importation Requirements - Article 18 Importation by Instalments - Article 19 Waiver of Origin Declaration - Article 20 Supporting Documents - Article 21 Record-Keeping Requirements - Article 22 Discrepancies and Formal Errors   TITLE V ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION  - Article 23 Notifications - Article 24 Verification of Origin Declarations - Article 25 Dispute Settlement - Article 26 Confidentiality - Article 27 Penalties - Article 28 Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment - Article 29 Free Zones   TITLE VI CUSTOMS CO-OPERATION  - Article 30 Customs co-operation - Article 31 Customs contact points   TITLE VII FINAL PROVISIONS  - Article 32 Sub-Committee on Customs and Origin Matters - Article 33 Explanatory Notes - Article 34 Goods in Transit or Storage     
                                                                        LIST OF APPENDICES   Appendix 1 Introductory Notes to the list in Appendix 2  Appendix 2 List of working or processing required to be carried out on non-originating materials in order that the product manufactured can obtain originating status  Appendix 3 Text of the Origin Declaration  Appendix 4  Exemptions from the Principle of Territoriality   _______________    
   SECTION I  RULES OF ORIGIN   TITLE I  GENERAL PROVISIONS   Article 1  Definitions  For the purposes of this Annex:   (a) “chapters”, “headings” and “sub-headings” mean the chapters, the headings (four-digit codes) and sub-headings (six-digit codes) used in the nomenclature of the HS;  (b) “classified” refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular chapter, heading and sub-heading;  (c) “consignment” means products, which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a document, by a single invoice;  (d) “customs value” means the calculated value determined in accordance with the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (WTO Agreement on Customs Valuation);  (e) “ex-works price” means the price paid or payable for the product ex-works to the manufacturer in a Party in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided the price includes the value of all the materials used, minus any internal taxes returned or repaid when the product obtained is exported;  (f) “goods” means materials, products, or articles;  (g) “the HS” means the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System in force on the date of signature of this Agreement, including its general rules and legal notes;  (h) “manufacture” means any kind of working or processing, including assembly or specific operations;  (i) “material” means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in the manufacture of a product; (j) “non-originating materials” means materials which do not qualify as originating under this Annex;  
                                                                       (k) “Party” means Korea, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland. Due to the customs union between Switzerland and Liechtenstein, products originating in Liechtenstein are considered to be originating in Switzerland;  (l) “product” means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use as a material in another manufacturing operation;   (m) “territories” includes territorial sea;  (n) “value of materials” means the customs value at the time of importation of the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in a Party;  (o) “value of originating materials” means the value of originating materials in accordance with the definition of sub-paragraph (n) applied mutatis mutandis;  (p) “exporter” means a person located in the territory of a Party from where a good is exported by such a person;  (q) “importer” means a person located in the territory of a Party where a good is imported by such a person; and  (r) “producer” means a person that grows, mines, harvests, fishes, traps, hunts, manufactures, processes or assembles goods.    TITLE II   REQUIREMENTS FOR “ORIGINATING PRODUCTS”   Article 2 Origin Criteria  For the purpose of this Agreement, the following products shall be considered to be originating in a Party:  (a) products wholly obtained in a Party within the meaning of Article 4;  (b) products obtained in a Party incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the Party concerned within the meaning of Article 5; or  (c) products obtained in a Party exclusively from materials that qualify as originating pursuant to this Annex.  
                                                                        Article 3 Cumulation of Origin  1. Notwithstanding Article 2, materials originating in another Party within the meaning of this Annex shall be considered to be materials originating in the Party concerned, provided that they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6.  2. Products originating in another Party within the meaning of this Annex, which are exported from one Party to another, shall retain their origin when exported in the same state or without having undergone in the exporting Party working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6.  3. For the purpose of paragraph 2, where materials originating in two or more of the Parties are used and those materials have undergone working or processing in the exporting Party not going beyond that referred to in Article 6, the origin is determined by the material with the highest customs value or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, with the highest first ascertainable price paid for that material in that Party.   Article 4 Wholly Obtained Products  For the purposes of Article 2(a), the following shall be considered to be wholly obtained in a Party:  (a) mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed;  (b) vegetable products grown harvested or gathered there;  (c) live animals born and raised there;  (d) products from live animals born and raised there;  (e) products obtained by hunting, trapping or fishing conducted there;  (f) products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea outside the territorial sea of a country by a vessel flying the flag of a Party;  (g) products manufactured on board a factory ship flying the flag of a Party, exclusively from products referred to in sub-paragraph (f);  (h) articles collected there which can no longer perform their original purpose nor are capable of being restored or repaired and are fit only for disposal or recovery of parts or raw materials;   
                                                                       (i) waste and scrap resulting from consumption or manufacturing operations conducted there, fit only for disposal or recovery of raw materials;  (j) products extracted from the seabed or beneath the seabed outside their territorial sea, provided that they have sole rights to exploit such seabed; or  (k) products manufactured there exclusively from products specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (j).   Article 5 Sufficiently Worked or Processed Products  1. For the purposes of Article 2(b), products which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in Appendix 2 are fulfilled. The conditions referred to above indicate the working or processing which shall be carried out on non-originating materials used in manufacturing and apply only in relation to such materials. Accordingly, it follows that if a product which has acquired originating status, regardless of whether this product has been manufactured in the same factory or in another factory in a Party, by fulfilling the conditions set out in Appendix 2, is used as material in the manufacture of another product, the conditions applicable to such other product do not apply to the product that is used as material, and therefore no account shall be taken of any non-originating materials incorporated into such a product used as a material in the manufacture of another product.  2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in Appendix 2, should not be used in the manufacture of a product may nevertheless be used, provided that:  (a) for products except for those falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the HS, their total value does not exceed 10 per cent of the ex-works price of the product; and  (b) for products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the HS, their total weight of basic textile material used does not exceed 10 per cent of the total weight of all the basic textile materials used; and   (c) any of the percentages given in Appendix 2 for the maximum value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through the application of this paragraph.  3. Paragraph 2 shall not apply to a non-originating material used in the production of a good provided for in Chapters 1 through 24 of the HS unless the non-originating materials is provided for in a different subheading from that of the good for which the origin is being determined under this Article.  4. For the purposes of fulfilling the conditions set out in Appendix 2, the processes may be carried out by one or more producers within one Party.  Supporting documents 
                                                                       proving the working or processing shall be maintained by the exporter or the producer of the final product.  5. Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply except as provided for in Article 6.    Article 6 Insufficient Working or Processing Operations  1. Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered to be insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the requirements of Article 5 are satisfied:   (a) preserving operations to ensure that the products remain in good condition during transport and storage;   (b) changes of packaging, breaking-up and assembly of packages;   (c) washing, cleaning, removal of dust, oxide, oil, paint or other coverings;   (d) ironing or pressing of textiles;   (e) simple  painting and polishing operations;   (f) husking, partial or total bleaching, polishing, and glazing of cereals and rice;   (g) operations to colour sugar or form sugar lumps;   (h) peeling, stoning and shelling of fruits, nuts and vegetables;   (i) sharpening, simple grinding or simple cutting;   (j) sifting, screening, sorting, classifying, grading, matching; (including the making-up of sets of articles);   (k) simple  placing in bottles, cans, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards and all other simple packaging operations;   (l) affixing or printing marks, labels, logos and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging;   (m) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds;                                                  
                                                                         (n) simple  assembly of parts of articles to constitute a complete article or disassembly of products into parts;   (o) simple testing or calibrations;   (p) slaughter of animals; or   (q) a combination of two or more operations specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (p).  2. All operations carried out in a Party on a given product shall be considered together when determining whether the working or processing undergone by that product is to be regarded as insufficient within the meaning of paragraph 1.   Article 7 Unit of Qualification  1. The unit of qualification for the application of the provisions of this Annex shall be the particular product which is considered as the basic unit when determining classification using the nomenclature of the HS.  2. Where, under General Rule 5 of the HS, packaging is included with the product for classification purposes, it shall be included for the purposes of determining origin.   Article 8 Accessories, Spare Parts and Tools  Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.   Article 9 Sets  Notwithstanding the rules set out in Appendix 2, sets, as defined in General Rule 3 of the HS, shall be regarded as originating when all component products are originating. However, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a                                                                                                                                                       
                                                                       whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 per cent of the ex-works price of the set.   Article 10 Neutral Elements  In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture:  (a) energy and fuel;  (b) plant and equipment, including goods to be used for their maintenance;  (c) machines, tools, dies and moulds; and  (d) any other goods which do not enter into and which are not intended to enter into the final composition of the product.   Article 11 Segregation of Materials  1.  Where identical and interchangeable originating and non-originating materials are used in the manufacture of a product, those materials shall be physically segregated, according to their origin, during storage. “Identical and interchangeable materials” means materials being of the same kind and commercial quality, possessing the same technical and physical characteristics, and which once they are incorporated into the finished product cannot be distinguished from one another for origin purposes.  2. A producer facing considerable costs or material difficulties in keeping separate stocks of identical and interchangeable originating and non-originating materials used in the manufacture of a product, may use the so-called “accounting segregation” method for managing stocks.  3. The accounting method shall be recorded, applied and maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the Party in which the product is manufactured.  The method chosen must:  (a) permit a clear distinction to be made between originating and non-originating materials acquired and/or kept in stock; and  (b) guarantee that no more products receive originating status than would be the case if the materials had been physically segregated.  4. The producer using this facilitation shall assume full responsibility that origin declarations are completed for the quantity of products considered as originating and for keeping all documentary evidence of origin of the materials. At the request of the customs 
                                                                       authorities, the producer shall provide satisfactory information on how the stocks have been managed.  5. A Party may require that the application of the method for managing stocks as provided for in this Article is subject to prior authorization by customs authorities.    TITLE III  TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS   Article 12 Principle of Territoriality  1. Except as provided for in Articles 3 and 13, the conditions for acquiring originating status set out in Title II must be fulfilled without interruption in a Party.  2. Except as provided for in Article 3, an originating product exported from a Party to a non-Party shall when returned be considered to be non-originating unless it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities in accordance with laws and regulations of the importing Party concerned that:   (a) the returning product is the same as that exported; and    (b) the returning product has not undergone any operation beyond that necessary to preserve it in good condition while being exported.   Article 13 Exemption from the Principle of Territoriality  Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 12, the acquisition of originating status in accordance with the conditions set out in Title II shall not be affected by working or processing carried out outside the territory of a Party on materials exported from the Party concerned and subsequently re-imported there, provided that the conditions set out in Appendix 4 are fulfilled.   Article 14 Direct Transport  1. The preferential treatment provided for under this Agreement applies only to products, satisfying the requirements of this Annex, which are transported directly between Korea  and an EFTA State. However, products may be transported through territories of 
                                                                       non-parties, provided that they do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading, splitting-up of consignments or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition. During this period the products shall remain under customs control in the country of transit. 2. The importer shall upon request supply the appropriate evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 have been fulfilled, to the customs authority in accordance with the laws and regulations of the importing Party. 3. For the purpose of application of paragraph 1, originating products may be transported by pipeline across territories other than that of Korea or an EFTA State.  _______________ 
                                                                       SECTION II  CUSTOMS PROCEDURES  TITLE IV  PROOF OF ORIGIN   Article 15 Origin Declaration  For the purposes of obtaining preferential tariff treatment in the importing Party, a proof of origin in the form of an origin declaration as set out in Appendix 3 shall be completed by an exporter of a Party for products which can be considered to be products originating in Korea or in an EFTA State and which fulfil the other requirements of this Annex.   2. The origin declaration may be provided on an invoice or any other commercial document identifying the exporter, his address and telephone number, which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified.   3. An origin declaration shall be completed in English, in a legible and permanent form and, except as provided in Article 16, bear the original signature of the exporter.  4. An origin declaration may be completed by the exporter or the producer when the products to which it relates are exported, or after exportation.  5. When completing an origin declaration, an exporter that relies on documents and information from a producer shall take steps in accordance with domestic laws and regulations of the exporting Party to ensure that the documents and information are accurate.  6. An exporter that has completed an origin declaration and that becomes aware that the origin declaration contains incorrect information shall immediately notify the importer in writing with a copy to the exporting customs authority of any change affecting the originating status of each product to which the origin declaration is applicable. Penalties, if any, shall be made in accordance with laws and regulations of the exporting Party.  7. An exporter that has completed an origin declaration shall, on request of the customs authority of the exporting Party, provide to the authority concerned a copy of the origin declaration, and of all documents supporting the originating status of each product to which the origin declaration is applicable.  For this purpose, the said customs authorities shall have the right to carry out inspections of the exporters or the producer’s accounts or any other controls considered appropriate.  8. For the purposes of this Article, the term “exporter” does not include a forwarding agent, customs broker or the like, unless such a company, in accordance with national laws and regulations has been authorized in writing by the owner of the product to complete the origin declaration.   
                                                                       Article 16 Approved Exporter  Where a Party has established an approved exporter programme, the customs authority of that Party may authorize an exporter of that Party that makes frequent shipments of originating products under this Agreement to complete an origin declaration without signature, on condition that he gives the customs authority of the exporting Party a written undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any origin declaration which identifies him as if it had been signed in manuscript by him.  The customs authority of the exporting Party shall provide to the approved exporter referred to in paragraph 1, a customs authorization number or other form of identification as may be agreed by the customs authorities of the Parties for use on the origin declaration instead of the signature of the exporter.  The customs authority of the exporting Party may verify the proper use of an authorization as referred to in paragraph 1 and may at any time withdraw the authorization if the exporter no longer meets the conditions or otherwise makes improper use of the authorization.   Article 17 Importation Requirements  1. Each Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment in accordance with this Agreement to originating products imported from another Party, within the meaning of Article 15.  The importing customs authority may require the import declaration to be accompanied by a statement from the importer to the effect that the products meet the conditions of this Annex.  2. In order to obtain preferential tariff treatment, the importer shall, in accordance with the procedures applicable in the importing Party, request preferential tariff treatment at the time of importation of an originating product, whether or not he has an origin declaration.  In the case that the importer at the time of importation does not have in his possession an origin declaration, the importer of the product may, in accordance with the law and regulations of the importing Party, present origin declaration or other documentary evidence of origin and if required such other documentation relating to the importation of the product, at a later stage.  3. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within the meaning of this Annex shall, in the cases specified in Article 19, on importation benefit from the preferential tariff treatment under this Agreement without it being necessary to submit a document as referred to in paragraph 1.  4. An origin declaration shall be valid for 12 months from the date of issue in the exporting Party.  An origin declaration which is submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 4 may be accepted for the purpose 
                                                                       of applying for preferential tariff treatment where the failure to submit such a document by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances.  6. The importing Party shall grant preferential tariff treatment to goods, in cases where the importer does not have the origin declaration at the time of importation, provided that:   (a) the importer had, at the time of importation, indicated to the customs authority of the importing Party his intention to claim preferential tariff treatment; and  the origin declaration is submitted to the customs authority of the importing country within the time-limit in accordance with the domestic law and regulation in the importing Party.  7. An origin declaration shall be submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party in accordance with the procedures applicable in that Party.  8. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the granting of preferential tariff treatment may be suspended for a time period not exceeding one month in the case where an importer claiming preferential tariff treatment, on the request of the importing Party’s customs authority fails to present an origin declaration or such other documents related to the origin declaration, in accordance with its national law and regulation.   Article 18 Importation by Instalments  Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authority of the importing Party, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General Rule 2(a) of the HS falling within Sections XVI and XVII or heading Nos 7308 and 9406 of the HS are imported by instalments, a single origin declaration for such products shall be submitted to the customs authority upon importation of the first instalment.   Article 19  Waiver of Origin Declaration  1. Products sent as small packages from private persons to private persons or forming part of travellers' personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products without requiring the submission of an origin declaration, provided that such products are not imported by way of trade and have been declared as meeting the requirements of this Annex and where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such a declaration. In the case of products sent by post, this declaration can be made on a postal customs declaration or on a sheet of paper annexed to that document.  2. Imports which are occasional and consist solely of products for the personal use of the recipients or travellers or their families shall not be considered as imports by way of 
                                                                       trade if it is evident from the nature and quantity of the products that no commercial purpose is intended.  3. For the purposes of paragraph 1, in case of small packages sent from private persons to private persons the total value of these products shall not exceed the following amounts: (a) 1000 US dollar (USD) for importation in Korea; or (b) 500 euro for importation in an EFTA State.  4. For the purposes of paragraph 1, in case of products forming part of travellers’ personal luggage the total value of these products shall not exceed the following amounts: (a) 1000 US dollar (USD) for importation in Korea; or (b) 1200 euro for importation in an EFTA State.  5. Where the value of the products is invoiced or declared in a currency other than those mentioned in paragraphs 3 and 4 the amount equivalent to the amount expressed in the national currency of the importing Party shall be applied.   Article 20 Supporting Documents  The documents referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 15 used for the purpose of proving that products covered by an origin declaration can be considered as products originating in Korea or an EFTA State and fulfil the other requirements of this Annex may consist of inter alia the following:  (a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal bookkeeping;  (b) documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in a Party where these documents are used, as provided for in their domestic law;  (c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in a Party, issued or made out in a Party where these documents are used, as provided for in their domestic law;  (d) origin declarations proving the originating status of materials used, completed in a Party; or  (e) appropriate evidence concerning working or processing undergone outside the territories of the Parties by application of Article 13, proving that the requirements of that Article have been satisfied.   Article 21
                                                                        Record-Keeping Requirements  1. The exporter or the producer making out an origin declaration shall keep for a maximum of five years a copy of the origin declaration in question as well as the documents referred to in paragraph 7 of Article 15.  2. The importer shall keep all records related to the importation in accordance with national laws and regulation.  3. The records to be kept in accordance with paragraph 1 and 2 shall include electronic records.    Article 22 Discrepancies and Formal Errors  1. The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the origin declaration and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the origin declaration null and void if it is duly established that such document does correspond to the products submitted.  2. Obvious formal errors such as typing errors in an origin declaration should not cause this document to be rejected if these errors are not such as to create doubts concerning the correctness of the statements made in this document.  TITLE V  ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CO-OPERATION   Article 23  Notifications  The customs authorities of the Parties shall provide each other, through the EFTA Secretariat, with the addresses of the customs authorities of the Parties responsible for verifying origin declarations.   Article 24  Verification of Origin Declarations  
                                                                       1. In order to ensure the proper application of this Annex, the Parties shall assist each other, through the respective customs authorities of the Parties, to verify the authenticity of the origin declarations and the correctness of the information given in these documents.  2. Subsequent verifications of origin declarations shall be carried out whenever the customs authority of the importing Party wants to verify the authenticity of such documents, the originating status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Annex.  3. For the purposes of implementing the provisions of paragraph 1, the customs authority of the importing Party shall return the origin declaration, or a copy of this document, to the customs authority of the exporting Party, as the case may be, giving the reasons for the inquiry. Any documents and information obtained suggesting that the information given on the origin declaration is incorrect shall be forwarded in support of the request for verification.  4. The verification shall be carried out by the customs authority of the exporting Party.  For this purpose, they shall have the right to request any evidence and to carry out any inspection of the exporter's accounts or any other control considered appropriate.  5. The customs authority of the importing Party may decide to suspend the granting of preferential tariff treatment to the products covered by the origin declaration concerned while awaiting the results of the verification.  The release of the products shall be offered to the importer subject to any precautionary measures judged necessary.  6. The customs authority requesting the verification shall be informed of the results of this verification including findings and facts, and any supporting documents made available by the exporter, as soon as possible.  These results shall indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in Korea or an EFTA State and fulfil the other requirements of this Annex.  7. If there is no reply within ten months of the date of the verification request or if the reply does not contain sufficient information to be able to determine the authenticity of the document in question or the origin of the products, the requesting customs authorities shall be entitled, save in exceptional circumstances, to refuse to grant preferential tariff treatment.  8. Subject to any conditions set out by the customs authority of the exporting Party, the customs officials of the importing Party may be present as an observer during the course of an origin verification conducted by the customs authority of the exporting Party.  9. In the fourth year from the entry into force of this Agreement, the Joint Committee shall, if deemed necessary by the Parties, examine and revise the provisions of this Article   Article 25  Dispute Settlement  Disputes between the Parties arising in relation to the verification procedures pursuant to Article 24, which cannot be settled between the customs authorities of the 
                                                                       Parties, or which raise a question as to the interpretation of this Annex, shall be referred to the Sub-Committee on Customs and Origin Matters stipulated in Article 32. The Sub-Committee shall present a report to the Joint Committee containing its conclusions.   Article 26  Confidentiality  1. All information which is by nature confidential or which is provided on a confidential basis shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy, in accordance with the respective laws of each Party. It shall not be disclosed by the Parties’ authorities without the express permission of the person or authority providing it.  2. If a Party considers that the other Party has not maintained confidentiality of information as required under this Article, it may make a written request to the other Party for consultations. The Parties shall consult within 30 days after the request is delivered with a view to agreeing on appropriate steps to ensure compliance with this Article.   Article 27  Penalties  Each Party shall provide for penalties to be imposed on any person who draws up or causes to be drawn up a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining preferential tariff treatment and who fails to comply with any obligation under this Annex.    Article 28  Denial of Preferential Tariff Treatment  Except as otherwise provided in this Annex, the importing Party may deny claim for preferential tariff treatment or recover unpaid duties in accordance with its laws and regulations, where the product does not meet the requirements of this Annex, or where the importer, exporter or producer fails to comply with any of the relevant requirements of this Annex.    Article 29  Free Zones  1. An exporter in a Party shall ensure that products traded under cover of an origin declaration which in the course of transport use a free zone located in a Party, are not substituted by other goods and do not undergo handling other than normal operations designed to prevent their deterioration.  
                                                                       2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, when products originating in Korea or in an EFTA State are imported into a free zone inside the territory of a Party under cover of an origin declaration and undergo working or processing, the exporter concerned may complete a new origin declaration if the working or processing undergone is in conformity with the provisions of this Annex.  TITLE VI  CUSTOMS CO-OPERATION  Article 30  Customs Co-Operation   The Customs authorities of the Parties may co-operate in the harmonisation and simplification of the customs procedures, sharing of best practises and information on customs control and verification techniques, exchange of expertise in customs matters and exchange of customs officers, as well as developing joint training programmes for customs officers in customs related issues.   Article 31 Customs Contact Points  1. The Parties shall exchange lists of designated contact points for all matters relating to this Annex.   2. The contact points shall endeavour to resolve any matter raised under this Annex through consultations.  If the matter cannot be resolved through the contact points, the matter shall be referred to the Sub-Committee on Customs and Origin Matters as set out in this Annex.  The Sub-Committee shall present a report to the Joint Committee containing its conclusions.    TITLE VII  FINAL PROVISIONS  Article 32 Sub-Committee on Customs and Origin Matters  1. A Sub-Committee of the Joint Committee on Customs and Origin Matters is hereby established.  
                                                                       2. The functions of the Sub-Committee shall be to exchange information and review the rules of origin in light of changed circumstances, such as technological advances, changes in market conditions or other international developments.  Furthermore, the Sub-Committee shall prepare and co-ordinate positions, prepare amendments to the rules of origin and assist the Joint Committee regarding:  (a) general rules of origin and customs procedures as set out in this Annex;  (b) product-specific rules of origin set out in Appendices 2 and 4 ; and  (c) other matters referred to the Sub-Committee by the Joint Committee.   3. The Sub-Committee shall endeavour to resolve as soon as possible any dispute arising in relation to the verification procedures, as referred to in Article 25.  4. The Sub-Committee shall report to the Joint Committee.  The Sub-Committee may make recommendations to the Joint Committee on matters related to its functions.   5. The Sub-Committee shall act by consensus.  The Sub-Committee shall be chaired alternatively by a representative of a Party for an agreed period of time. The chairperson shall be elected at the first meeting of the Sub-Committee.  6. The Sub-Committee shall meet as often as required.  It may be convened by the Joint Committee, by the chairperson of the Sub-Committee on his/her own initiative or upon request of any Party.  The venue shall alternate between Korea and an EFTA State.   7. A provisional agenda for each meeting shall be prepared by the chairperson in consultation with all Parties, and forwarded to the Parties, as a general rule, not later than two weeks before the meeting.   Article 33 Explanatory Notes  1. The Parties shall agree on “Explanatory Notes” regarding the interpretation, application and administration of this Annex within the Sub-Committee on Customs and Origin Matters. 2. The Parties shall implement simultaneously the agreed Explanatory Notes in accordance with their respective internal procedures.   Article 34 Goods in Transit or Storage  The provisions of this Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this Annex and which on the date of entry into force of this Agreement are either in transit or are in a Party or, in temporary storage in bonded warehouse under 
                                                                       customs control or in free zones, subject to the submission to the customs authority of the importing Party, within four months of that date, of an origin declaration completed retrospectively by the exporter concerned after the entry into the force of this Agreement together with the documents showing that the goods have been transported directly.   
   APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX I   INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN APPENDIX 2   Note 1:  The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered to be sufficiently worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 of Annex I.   Note 2:  2.1 The first two columns in the list describe the product obtained.  The first column gives the chapter number, heading number or sub-heading number used in the Harmonized System and the second column gives the description of goods used in that system for that chapter, heading or sub-heading.  For each entry in the first two columns a rule is specified in columns 3 or 4.  Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an 'ex', this signifies that the rules in columns 3 or 4 apply only to the part of that chapter which is not described below in column 2.  2.2 Where, for an entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in both columns 3 and 4, the exporter may opt, as an alternative, to apply either the rule set out in column 3 or that set out in column 4.  If no origin rule is given in column 4, the rule set out in column 3 has to be applied.   Note 3:  3.1 The provisions of Article 5 of Annex I concerning products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of other products apply regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory where these products are used or in another factory in a Party.  3.2 The rule in the list represents the minimum amount of working or processing required and the carrying out of more working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the carrying out of less working or processing cannot confer originating status.  Thus if a rule provides that non-originating material at a certain level of manufacture may be used, the use of such material at an earlier stage of manufacture is allowed and the use of such material at a later stage is not.  3.3 Without prejudice to Note 3.2 where a rule states that "materials of any heading" may be used, materials of the same heading as the product may also be used, subject, however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule. However, the expression "manufacture from materials of other headings, including other materials of heading No ... " means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used.  
                                                                       3.4 When a rule in the list specifies that a product may be manufactured from more than one material, this means that any one or more materials may be used.  It does not require that all be used.  3.5 Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obviously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule.     3.6 Where, in a rule in the list, two percentages are given for the maximum value of non-originating materials that can be used, then these percentages may not be added together.  In other words, the maximum value of all the non-originating materials used may never exceed the highest of the percentages given.  Furthermore, the individual percentages must not be exceeded in relation to the particular materials they apply to.   3.7 “At least two preparatory or finishing operations” in the rules of Chapters 50 to 60 in the list means any kind of working or processing such as scouring, bleaching, mercerizing, heat setting, raising, calendering, shrink resistance processing, permanent finishing, decatizing, impregnating, mending and burling.   
  APPENDIX 2 TO ANNEX I  LIST OF WORKING OR PROCESSING REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED OUT ON NON-ORIGINATING MATERIALS IN ORDER THAT THE PRODUCT MANUFACTURED CAN OBTAIN ORIGINATING STATUS   The products mentioned in the list may not be all covered by this Agreement. It is, therefore, necessary to consult the other parts of this Agreement. 
[['HS heading', 'Description of product', 'Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which\nconfers originating status', None], ['(1)', '(2)', '(3) or (4)', None], ['Chapter 1', 'Live animals', 'All the animals of Chapter 1 shall\nbe wholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 2', 'Meat and edible meat offal', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 1 and 2 used\nare wholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 3', 'Fish and crustaceans, molluscs\nand other aquatic invertebrates', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 3 used must be\nwholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 4', "Dairy produce; birds' eggs;\nnatural honey; edible products of\nanimal origin, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; except for:", 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 4 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['ex Chapter 5\n0501\nex 0511\n0511. 10\n0511. 91-99', 'Products of animal origin, not\nelsewhere specified or included;\nexcept for:\nHuman hair, unworked, whether\nor not washed or scoured; waste\nof human hair\nAnimal products not elsewhere\nspecified or included; dead\nanimals of Chapter 1 or 3, unfit\nfor human consumption:\n- Bovine semen\n- Other', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 1 and 5 used\nare wholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 5 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 1 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 1, 3 and 5\nused are wholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 6', 'Live trees and other plants; bulbs,\nroots and the like; cut flowers and\nornamental foliage', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 6 used are\nwholly obtained provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['Chapter 7', 'Edible vegetables and certain\nroots and tubers', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 7 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 8', 'Edible fruit and nuts; peel of\ncitrus fruits or melons', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 8 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['ex Chapter 9\nex 0901\n0901. 21-22\n0901. 90', 'Coffee, tea, maté and spices;\nexcept for:\nCoffee, whether or not roasted or\ndecaffeinated; coffee husks and\nskins; coffee substitutes\ncontaining coffee in any\nproportion\n- Coffee, roasted\n- Other', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 9 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 45 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', ''], ['Chapter 10', 'Cereals', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 10 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['1105\n1106', 'Flour, meal, powder, flakes,\ngranules and pellets of potatoes\nFlour, meal and powder of the\ndried, shelled leguminous\nvegetables of heading 0713 , of\nsago or of roots or tubers of\nheading 0714 or of the products\nof Chapter 8', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter except from Chapter\n7\nManufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter except from headings\n0708, 0710, 0713, 0714 and\nChapter 8', ''], ['1108', 'Starches; Inulin', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter except from Chapters\n7 and 10', ''], ['Chapter 12', 'Oil seeds and oleaginous fruits;\nmiscellaneous grains, seeds and\nfruit; industrial or medicinal\nplants; straw and fodder', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 12 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 13', 'Lac; natural gums, resins, gum-\nresins and oleoresins (for\nexample, balsams)', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['Chapter 14', 'Vegetable plaiting materials;\nvegetable products not elsewhere\nspecified or included', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 14 used are\nwholly obtained', ''], ['ex Chapter 15\n1501\n1502\n1503\n1504\n1505\n1506\n1507 to 1515\n1516', 'Animal or vegetable fats and oils\nand their cleavage products;\nprepared edible fats; animal or\nvegetable waxes; except for:\nPig fat (including lard) and\npoultry fat, other than that of\nheading 0209 or 1503\nFats of bovine animals, sheep or\ngoats, other than those of\nheading 1503\nLard stearin, lard oil, oleostearin,\noleo-oil and tallow oil, not\nemulsified or mixed or otherwise\nprepared\nFats and oils and their fractions,\nof fish or marine mammals,\nwhether or not refined, but not\nchemically modified:\nWool grease and fatty substances\nderived therefrom (including\nlanolin)\nOther animal fats and oils and\ntheir fractions, whether or not\nrefined, but not chemically\nmodified\nVegetable oils and their fractions\nAnimal or vegetable fats and oils\nand their fractions, partly or\nwholly hydrogenated, inter-\nesterified, re-esterified or\nelaidinised, whether or not\nrefined, but not further prepared', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2, 4, 5 and 12\nused are wholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2 and 5 used\nare wholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2 and 5 used\nare wholly obtained\nManufacture from materials of any\nother headings\nManufacture:\n- from materials of any other\nChapter, except that of the\nproduct, and\nprovided that the value of all the\nmaterials used does not exceed\n50 % of the ex-works price of the\nproduct\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2 and 5 used\nare wholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 12 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2, 5 and 12\nused are wholly obtained', ''], ['1604\n1605', 'Prepared or preserved fish; caviar\nand caviar substitutes prepared\nfrom fish eggs\nCrustaceans, molluscs and other\naquatic invertebrates, prepared or\npreserved', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 55 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 17\n1701\n1704', 'Sugars and sugar confectionery;\nexcept for:\nCane or beet sugar and\nchemically pure sucrose, in solid\nform, containing added\nflavouring or colouring matter\nSugar confectionery (including\nwhite chocolate), not containing\ncocoa', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 17 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 55 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 18\n1806', 'Cocoa and cocoa preparations\nChocolate and other food\npreparations containing cocoa', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials of\nChapter 17 used does not exceed\n30 % of the ex-works price of the\nproduct', ''], ['ex Chapter 19\n1901\n1902\n1903', 'Preparations of cereals, flour,\nstarch or milk; pastrycooks’\nproducts\nMalt extract; food preparations of\nflour, groats, meal, starch or malt\nextract, not containing cocoa or\ncontaining less than 40 % by\nweight of cocoa calculated on a\ntotally defatted basis, not\nelsewhere specified or included;\nfood preparations of goods of\nheadings 0401 to 0404, not\ncontaining cocoa or containing\nless than 5 % by weight of cocoa\ncalculated on a totally defatted\nbasis, not elsewhere specified or\nincluded\nPasta, whether or not cooked or\nstuffed (with meat or other\nsubstances) or otherwise\nprepared, such as spaghetti,\nmacaroni, noodles, lasagne,\ngnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni;\ncouscous, whether or not\nprepared:\nTapioca and substitutes therefore\nprepared from starch, in the form\nof flakes, grains, pearls, siftings\nor similar forms', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 55 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading except from headings\n0401 to 0406, Chapters 10 and 11\nand headings 3501 and 3502\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 2, 3, 10 and\n11 (except headings 1001 and 1101)\nused are wholly obtained\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapters 10 and 11\n(except headings 1001 and 1101)\nused are wholly obtained', ''], ['Chapter 20', 'Preparations of vegetables, fruit,\nnuts or other parts of plants', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 55 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['2101\n2104\n2106', 'Extracts, essences and\nconcentrates, of coffee, tea or\nmaté and preparations with a\nbasis of these products or with a\nbasis of coffee, tea or maté;\nroasted chicory and other roasted\ncoffee substitutes, and extracts,\nessences and concentrates thereof\nSoups and broths and\npreparations therefore\nFood preparations not elsewhere\nspecified or included', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 45 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 45 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother chapter, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 22\n2201\n2202\n2206', 'Beverages, spirits and vinegar;\nexcept for:\nWaters, including natural or\nartificial mineral waters and\naerated waters, not containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening\nmatter nor flavoured; ice and\nsnow\nWaters, including mineral waters\nand aerated waters, containing\nadded sugar or other sweetening\nmatter or flavoured, and other\nnon-alcoholic beverages, not\nincluding fruit or vegetable juices\nof heading 2009\nOther fermented beverages (for\nexample, cider, perry, mead);\nmixtures of fermented beverages\nand mixtures of fermented\nbeverages and non-alcoholic\nbeverages, not elsewhere\nspecified or included', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture in which all the\nmaterials of heading 2201 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 55 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from headings\n0808 and 2009', ''], ['ex Chapter 23\nex 2301\n2301. 10\n2301. 20\n2309', 'Residues and waste from the food\nindustries; prepared animal\nfodder; except for:\nFlours, meals and pellets, of meat\nor meat offal, of fish or of\ncrustaceans, molluscs or other\naquatic invertebrates, unfit for\nhuman consumption; greaves\n- Flours, meals and pellets, of\nmeat or meat offal; greaves\n- Flours, meals and pellets, of fish\nor of crustaceans, molluscs or\nother aquatic invertebrates\nPreparations of a kind used in\nanimal feeding', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from Chapters\n2 and 5\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading except from Chapter\n3\nManufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter, except from\nChapters 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11 and 16', ''], ['2401\n2402\n2403', 'Tobacco and manufactured\ntobacco substitutes; except for:\nCigars, cheroots, cigarillos and\ncigarettes, of tobacco or of\ntobacco substitutes\nOther manufactured tobacco and\nmanufactured tobacco substitutes;\n“homogenised” or “reconstituted”\ntobacco; tobacco extracts and\nessences', 'Manufacture in which all the\nmaterials of Chapter 24 used are\nwholly obtained\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n2403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['ex 2518\n2518. 20', 'Calcined dolomite\n- Calcinedor sintered dolomite', 'Calcination of dolomite not\ncalcined\nManufacture from materials of any\nother sub-heading', ''], ['Chapter 26', 'Ores, slag and ash', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 27', 'Mineral fuels, mineral oils and\nproducts of their distillation;\nbituminous substances; mineral\nwaxes', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 28', 'Inorganic chemicals; organic or\ninorganic compounds of precious\nmetals, of rare-earth metals, of\nradioactive elements or of\nisotopes', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 29', 'Organic chemicals', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 30\n3004\nex 3006\n3006. 80', 'Pharmaceutical products; except\nfor:\nMedicaments\nPharmaceutical goods specified in\nNote 4 to this Chapter\n- waste pharmaceuticals', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n3003\nThe origin of the product in its\noriginal classification shall be\nretained', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 31\n3105', 'Fertilizers; except for:\nMineral or chemical fertilizers\ncontaining two or three of the\nfertilizing elements nitrogen,\nphosphorous and potassium; other\nfertilizers; goods of this chapter,\nin tablets or similar forms or in\npackages of a gross weight not\nexceeding 10 kg', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from headings\n3102 to 3104', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 32', 'Tanning or dyeing extracts;\ntannins and their derivatives;\ndyes, pigments and other\ncolouring matter; paints and\nvarnishes; putty and other\nmastics; inks', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading,', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 33', 'Essential oils and resinoids;\nperfumery, cosmetic or toilet\npreparations', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 34', 'Soap, organic surface-active\nagents, washing preparations,\nlubricating preparations, artificial\nwaxes, prepared waxes, polishing\nor scouring preparations, candles\nand similar articles, modelling\npastes, "dental waxes" and dental\npreparations with a basis of\nplaster', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['3505\n3506', 'Dextrins and other modified\nstarches (for example,\npregelatinised or esterified\nstarches); glues based on starches,\nor on dextrins or other modified\nstarches\nProducts suitable for use as glues\nor adhesives', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheading 1108\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 3501, 3503 and 3505', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 36', 'Explosives; pyrotechnic products;\nmatches; pyrophoric alloys;\ncertain combustible preparations', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 37\n3701\n3702\n3704', 'Photographic or cinematographic\ngoods; except for:\nPhotographic plates and film in\nthe flat, sensitised, unexposed, of\nany material other than paper,\npaperboard or textiles; instant\nprint film in the flat, sensitised,\nunexposed, whether or not in\npacks\nPhotographic film in rolls,\nsensitised, unexposed, of any\nmaterial other than paper,\npaperboard or textiles; instant\nprint film in rolls, sensitised,\nunexposed\nPhotographic plates, film paper,\npaperboard and textiles, exposed\nbut not developed', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n3702\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheading 3701\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 3701 to 3703', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['3810\n3811\n3812\n3813\n3814\n3818\n3819\n3820\n3822\nex 3823\n3823. 70', 'Pickling preparations for metal\nsurfaces; fluxes and other\nauxiliary preparations for\nsoldering, brazing or welding;\nsoldering, brazing or welding\npowders and pastes consisting of\nmetal and other materials;\npreparations of a kind used as\ncores or coatings for welding\nelectrodes or rods\nAnti-knock preparations,\noxidation inhibitors, gum\ninhibitors, viscosity improvers,\nanti-corrosive preparations and\nother prepared additives, for\nmineral oils (including gasoline)\nor for other liquids used for the\nsame purposes as mineral oils\nPrepared rubber accelerators;\ncompound plasticisers for rubber\nor plastics, not elsewhere\nspecified or included; anti-\noxidising preparations and other\ncompound stabilisers for rubber\nor plastics\nPreparations and charges for fire-\nextinguishers; charged fire-\nextinguishing grenades\nOrganic composite solvents and\nthinners, not elsewhere specified\nor included; prepared paint or\nvarnish removers\nChemical elements doped for use\nin electronics, in the form of\ndiscs, wafers or similar forms;\nchemical compounds doped for\nuse in electronics\nHydraulic brake fluids and other\nprepared liquids for hydraulic\ntransmission, not containing or\ncontaining less than 70 % by\nweight of petroleum oils or oils\nobtained from bituminous\nminerals\nAnti-freezing preparations and\nprepared de-icing fluids\nDiagnostic or laboratory reagents\non a backing and prepared\ndiagnostic or laboratory reagents\nwhether or not on a backing,\nother than those of heading No.\n3002 or 3006\nIndustrial monocarboxylic fatty\nacids; acid oils from refining;\nindustrial fatty alcohols\n- Industrial fatty alcohols', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother sub-heading', ''], ['Chapter 39', 'Plastics and articles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex 4012\n4012.11- 19\n4012. 20 - 90\nex 4017', 'Retreaded or used pneumatic\ntyres of rubber; solid or cushion\ntyres, tyre treads and tyre flaps, of\nrubber:\n- Retreaded pneumatic, solid or\ncushion tyres, of rubber\n- Other\nHard rubber (for example,\nebonite) in all forms, including\nwaste and scrap; articles of hard\nrubber:\n- articles of hard rubber', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother sub-heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4011\nManufacture from hard rubber', ''], ['ex Chapter 41\n4104 to 4106', 'Raw hides and skins (other than\nfurskins) and leather; except for:\nTanned or crust hides and skins,\nwithout wool or hair on, whether\nor not split, but not further\nprepared', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nRetanning of tanned leather', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading'], ['Chapter 42', 'Articles of leather; saddlery and\nharness; travel goods, handbags\nand similar containers; articles of\nanimal gut (other than silk worm\ngut)', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 43', 'Furskins and artificial fur;\nmanufactures thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['ex Chapter 44\n4404\n4405\n4406\n4407\n4408\n4409\n4416', "Wood and articles of wood; wood\ncharcoal; except for:\nHoopwood; split poles; piles,\npickets and stakes of wood,\npointed but not sawn lengthwise;\nwooden sticks, roughly trimmed\nbut not turned, bent or otherwise\nworked, suitable for the\nmanufacture of walking-sticks,\numbrellas, tool handles or the\nlike; chipwood and the like\nWood wool; wood flour\nRailway or tramway sleepers\n(cross-ties) of wood\nWood sawn or chipped\nlengthwise, sliced or peeled, of a\nthickness exceeding 6 mm,\nplaned, sanded or end-jointed\nSheets for veneering (including\nthose obtained by slicing\nlaminated wood) and for\nplywood, of a thickness not\nexceeding 6 mm, spliced, and\nother wood sawn lengthwise,\nsliced or peeled of a thickness not\nexceeding 6 mm, planed, sanded\nor end-jointed\nWood continuously shaped along\nany of its edges, ends or faces,\nwhether or not planed, sanded or\nend-jointed\nCasks, barrels, vats, tubs and\nother coopers' products and parts\nthereof, of wood", 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 4401 and 4403\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 45\n4503', 'Cork and articles of cork; except\nfor:\nArticles of natural cork', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from any other\nheading except form heading 4502', ''], ['Chapter 46', 'Manufactures of straw, of esparto\nor of other plaiting materials;\nbasketware and wickerwork', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 47', 'Pulp of wood or of other fibrous\ncellulosic material; recovered\n(waste and scrap) paper or\npaperboard', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 48', 'Paper and paperboard; articles of\npaper pulp, of paper or of\npaperboard', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['ex Chapter 49\n4909', 'Printed books, newspapers,\npictures and other products of the\nprinting industry; manuscripts,\ntypescripts and plans; except for:\nPrinted or illustrated postcards;\nprinted cards bearing personal\ngreetings, messages or\nannouncements, whether or not\nillustrated, with or without\nenvelopes or trimmings', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n4911', ''], ['ex Chapter 50\n5004 to 5005\n5006\n5007', 'Silk; except for:\nSilk yarn and yarn spun from silk\nwaste, not put up for retail sale\nSilk yarn and yarn spun from silk\nwaste, put up for retail sale; silk-\nworm gut\nWoven fabrics of silk or of silk\nwaste', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n5006\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from headings\n5004 to 5005\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 51\n5106 to 5108\n5109\n5111 to 5113', 'Wool, fine or coarse animal hair;\nhorsehair yarn and woven fabric;\nexcept for:\nYarn of wool, or of fine animal\nhair, not put up for retail sale.\nYarn of wool or of fine animal\nhair, put up for retail sale.\nWoven fabrics of wool, of fine or\ncoarse animal hair or of horsehair', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n5109\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from headings\n5106 to 5108\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 52\n5208 to 5212', 'Cotton; except for:\nWoven fabrics of cotton', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 53\n5309 to 5311', 'Other vegetable textile fibres;\npaper yarn and woven fabrics of\npaper yarn; except for:\nWoven fabrics of other vegetable\ntextile fibres; woven fabrics of\npaper yarn', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 54\n5407 and 5408', 'Man-made filaments\nWoven fabrics of man-made\nfilament yarn:', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 55\n5512 to 5516', 'Man-made staple fibres\nWoven fabrics of man-made\nstaple fibres', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading,', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['Chapter 56', 'Wadding, felt and non-wovens;\nspecial yarns; twine, cordage,\nropes and cables and articles\nthereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 57', 'Carpets and other textile floor\ncoverings', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 58', 'Special woven fabrics; tufted\ntextile fabrics; lace; tapestries;\ntrimmings; embroidery', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother Chapter', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 59\n5903\n5905\n5907', 'Impregnated, coated, covered or\nlaminated textile fabrics;\ntextile articles of a kind suitable\nfor industrial use\nTextile fabrics impregnated,\ncoated, covered or laminated with\nplastics, other than those of\nheading 5902\nTextile wall coverings\nTextile fabrics otherwise\nimpregnated, coated or covered;\npainted canvas being theatrical\nscenery, studio back-cloths or the\nlike', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product\nPrinting or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product\nPrinting or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['Chapter 60', 'Knitted or crocheted fabrics', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Printing or dyeing accompanied by\nat least two preparatory or finishing\noperations provided that the value\nof the unprinted or undyed fabric\nused does not exceed 50 % of the\nex-works price of the product'], ['ex Chapter 61\n6115 to 6117', 'Articles of apparel and clothing\naccessories, knitted or crocheted\nPanty hose, tights, stockings,\nsocks and other hosiery, including\nstockings for varicose veins and\nfootwear; gloves, mittens and\nmitts; other made up clothing\naccessories, knitted or crocheted', 'Manufacture from any other\nChapter, provided that the parts of\nthese products are both cut to shape\nand sewn or otherwise assembled in\na Party\nManufacture from any other\nChapter except from Chapter 60,\nprovided that the parts of these\nproducts are both cut to shape and\nsewn or otherwise assembled in a\nParty', '.'], ['6213 to 6214', 'Handkerchiefs; shawls, scarves,\nmufflers, mantillas, veils and the\nlike, not knitted or crocheted', 'Manufacture from any other\nChapter except from headings 5007,\n51.11 to 51.13, 5208 to 5212, 5307\nto 5311, 5407 to 5408, 5512 to\n5516, 5801 to 5802, 5903, 5906 to\n5907, provided that the parts of\nthese products are both cut to shape\nand sewn or otherwise assembled in\na Party', ''], ['ex Chapter 63\n6301 to 6304\n6307\n6308', 'Other made-up textile articles;\nsets; worn clothing and worn\ntextile articles; rags\nBlankets and travelling rugs; bed\nlinen, table linen, toilet linen and\nkitchen linen; curtains(including\ndrapes) and interior blinds,\ncurtain or bed valance; other\nfurnishing articles excluding\nthose of heading 9404\nOther made up articles, including\ndress patterns\nSet consisting of woven fabric\nand yarn, whether or not with\naccessories, for making up into\nrugs, tapestries, embroidered\ntable cloths or serviettes, or\nsimilar textile articles, put up in\npackings for retail sail.', 'Manufacture from any other\nChapter, provided that the parts of\nthese products are both cut to shape\nand sewn or otherwise assembled in\na Party\nManufacture from any other\nChapter, provided that the parts of\nthese products are both cut to shape\nand sewn or otherwise assembled in\na Party\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the products\nEach item in the set must satisfy the\nrule which would apply to it if it\nwere not included in the set.\nHowever, non-originating articles\nmay be incorporated, provided that\ntheir total value does not exceed\n15% of the ex-works price of the set', 'Embroidering, provided that the\nvalue of the unembroidered\nproducts used does not exceed 50 %\nof the ex-works price of the product'], ['Chapter 64', 'Footwear, gaiters and the like;\nparts of such articles', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['ex Chapter 65\n6503', 'Headgear and parts thereof;\nexcept for:\nFelt hats and other felt headgear,\nmade from the hat bodies, hoods\nor plateaux of heading 6501,\nwhether or not lined or trimmed', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from heading\n6501', ''], ['ex Chapter 66\n6601', 'Umbrellas, sun umbrellas,\nwalking-sticks, seat-sticks, whips,\nriding-crops, and parts thereof;\nexcept for:\nUmbrellas and sun umbrellas\n(including walking-stick\numbrellas, garden umbrellas and\nsimilar umbrellas)', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', ''], ['Chapter 67', 'Prepared feathers and down and\narticles made of feathers or of\ndown; artificial flowers; articles\nof human hair', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 68', 'Articles of stone, plaster, cement,\nasbestos, mica or similar\nmaterials', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 69', 'Ceramic products', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['7009', 'Glass mirrors, whether or not\nframed, including rear-view\nmirrors', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from headings\n7003 to 7006', ''], ['ex Chapter 71\n7101\n7102 to 7105\n7106\n7107\n7108\n7109\n7110\n7111\n7116\n7117', 'Natural or cultured pearls,\nprecious or semi-precious stones,\nprecious metals, metals clad with\nprecious metal, and articles\nthereof; imitation jewellery; coin;\nexcept for:\nPearls, natural or cultured,\nwhether or not worked or graded\nbut not strung, mounted or set;\npearls, natural or cultured,\ntemporarily strung for\nconvenience of transport\nWorked precious or semi-\nprecious stones (natural, synthetic\nor reconstructed), precious metals\nSilver (including silver plated\nwith gold or platinum),\nunwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform\nBase metals clad with silver, not\nfurther worked than semi-\nmanufactured\nGold (including gold plated with\nplatinum) unwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform\nBase metals or silver, clad with\ngold, not further worked than\nsemi-manufactured\nPlatinum, unwrought or in semi-\nmanufactured forms, or in powder\nform\nBase metals, silver or gold, clad\nwith platinum, not further worked\nthan semi-manufactured\nArticles of natural or cultured\npearls, precious or semi-precious\nstones (natural, synthetic or\nreconstructed\nImitation jewellery', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from any other sub-\nheading\nManufacture from any other sub-\nheading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from any other sub-\nheading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from any other sub-\nheading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 72', 'Iron and steel', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['7304, 7305 and\n7306\nex 7315\n7315. 20', 'Tubes, pipes and hollow profiles,\nof iron (other than cast iron) or\nsteel\nChain and parts thereof, of iron or\nsteel\n- Skid chain', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 74', 'Copper and articles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 75', 'Nickel and articles thereof;', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['ex Chapter 76\n7601\n7602', 'Aluminium and articles thereof;\nexcept for:\nUnwrought aluminium\nAluminium waste or scrap', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 60 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 77', 'Reserved for possible future use\nin the HS', '', ''], ['Chapter 78', 'Lead and articles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 79', 'Zinc and articles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 80', 'Tin and articles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['Chapter 81', 'Other base metals; cermets;\narticles thereof', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 60 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 82\n8206\n8207\n8208', 'Tools, implements, cutlery,\nspoons and forks, of base metal;\nparts thereof of base metal;\nexcept for:\nTools of two or more of the\nheadings 8202 to 8205, put up in\nsets for retail sale\nInterchangeable tools for hand\ntools, whether or not power-\noperated, or for machine-tools\n(for example, for pressing,\nstamping, punching, tapping,\nthreading, drilling, boring,\nbroaching, milling, turning, or\nscrewdriving), including dies for\ndrawing or extruding metal, and\nrock drilling or earth boring tools\nKnives and cutting blades, for\nmachines or for mechanical\nappliances', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheadings 8202 to 8205. However,\ntools of headings 8202 to 8205 may\nbe incorporated into the set,\nprovided that their total value does\nnot exceed 15 % of the ex-works\nprice of the set\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['Chapter 83', 'Miscellaneous articles of base\nmetal', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', ''], ['HS heading', 'Description of product', 'Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which\nconfers originating status'], ['(1)', '(2)', '(3) or (4)'], ['HS heading', 'Description of product', 'Working or processing, carried out on non-originating materials, which\nconfers originating status'], ['(1)', '(2)', '(3) or (4)'], ['ex Chapter 86\n8608', 'Railway or tramway locomotives,\nrolling-stock and parts thereof;\nrailway or tramway track fixtures\nand fittings and parts thereof;\nmechanical (including electro-\nmechanical) traffic signalling\nequipment of all kinds; except\nfor:\nRailway or tramway track\nfixtures and fittings; mechanical\n(including electromechanical)\nsignalling, safety or traffic control\nequipment for railways,\ntramways, roads, inland\nwaterways, parking facilities, port\ninstallations or airfields; parts of\nthe foregoing', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 87\n8706\n8707\n8708\n8709\n8710\n8711\n8712\n8713\n8714\n8715\n8716', 'Vehicles other than railway or\ntramway rolling-stock, and parts\nand accessories thereof; except\nfor:\nChassis fitted with engines, for\nthe motor vehicles of headings\nNos. 8701 to 8705\nBodies (including cabs), for the\nmotor vehicles of headings Nos.\n8701 to 8705\nParts and accessories of the motor\nvehicles of headings Nos. 8701 to\n8705\nWorks trucks, self-propelled, not\nfitted with lifting or handling\nequipment, of the type used in\nfactories, warehouses, dock areas\nor airports for short distance\ntransport of goods; tractors of the\ntype used on railway station\nplatforms; parts of the foregoing\nvehicles\nTanks and other armoured\nfighting vehicles, motorized,\nwhether or not fitted with\nweapons, and parts of such\nvehicles\nMotorcycles (including mopeds)\nand cycles fitted with an auxiliary\nmotor, with or without side-cars;\nside-cars:\nBicycles without ball bearings\nInvalid carriages, whether or not\nmotorised or otherwise\nmechanically propelled\nParts and accessories of vehicles\nof headings Nos. 8711 to 8713\nBaby carriages and parts thereof\nTrailers and semi-trailers; other\nvehicles, not mechanically\npropelled; parts thereof.', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, except from\nheading 8714\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 40 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 60 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 88\n8805', 'Aircraft, spacecraft, and parts\nthereof; except for:\nAircraft launching gear; deck-\narrestor or similar gear; ground\nflying trainers; parts of the\nforegoing articles', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 40 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 89', 'Ships, boats and floating\nstructures', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 90', 'Optical, photographic,\ncinematographic, measuring,\nchecking, precision, medical or\nsurgical instruments and\napparatus; parts and accessories\nthereof; except for:', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['9006', 'Photographic(other than\ncinematographic) cameras;\nphotographic flashlight apparatus\nand flashbulbs other than\ndischarge lamps of heading 8539', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['9018\n9019\n9021\n9022', 'Instruments and appliances used\nin medical, surgical, dental or\nveterinary sciences, including\nscintigraphic apparatus, other\nelectro-medical apparatus and\nsight-testing instruments:\nMechano-therapy appliances;\nmassage apparatus; psychological\naptitude-testing apparatus; ozone\ntherapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol\ntherapy, artificial respiration or\nother therapeutic respiration\napparatus\nOrthopaedic appliances, including\ncrutches, surgical belts and\ntrusses; splints and other fracture\nappliances; artificial parts of the\nbody; hearing aids and other\nappliances which are worn or\ncarried, or implanted in the body,\nto compensate for a defect or\ndisability\nApparatus based on the use of X-\nrays or of alpha, beta or gamma\nradiations, whether or not for\nmedical, surgical, dental or\nveterinary uses, including\nradiography or radiotherapy\napparatus, X-ray tubes and other\nX-ray generators, high tension\ngenerators, control panels and\ndesks, screens, examination or\ntreatment tables, chairs and the\nlike', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 25 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 25 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 30 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 91', 'Clocks and watches and parts\nthereof', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 40 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', ''], ['Chapter 92', 'Musical instruments; parts and\naccessories of such articles', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 93', 'Arms and ammunition; parts and\naccessories thereof', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 94\n9405\n9406', 'Furniture; bedding, mattresses,\nmattress supports, cushions and\nsimilar stuffed furnishings; lamps\nand lighting fittings, not\nelsewhere specified or included;\nilluminated signs, illuminated\nname-plates and the like;\nprefabricated buildings; except\nfor:\nLamps and lighting fittings\nincluding searchlights and\nspotlights and parts thereof, not\nelsewhere specified or included;\nilluminated signs, illuminated\nname-plates and the like, having a\npermanently fixed light source,\nand parts thereof not elsewhere\nspecified or included\nPrefabricated buildings', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product\nManufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 40 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['ex Chapter 95\n9503', 'Toys, games and sports\nrequisites; parts and accessories\nthereof; except for:\nOther toys; reduced-size ("scale")\nmodels and similar recreational\nmodels, working or not; puzzles\nof all kinds', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', ''], ['ex Chapter 96\n9603\n9605\n9606\n9613', 'Miscellaneous manufactured\narticles; except for:\nBrooms and brushes (except for\nbesoms and the like and brushes\nmade from marten or squirrel\nhair), hand-operated mechanical\nfloor sweepers, not motorized,\npaint pads and rollers, squeegees\nand mops\nTravel sets for personal toilet,\nsewing or shoe or clothes\ncleaning\nButtons, press-fasteners, snap-\nfasteners and press-studs, button\nmoulds and other parts of these\narticles; button blanks\nLighters with piezo-igniter', 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading\nEach item in the set must satisfy the\nrule which would apply to it if it\nwere not included in the set.\nHowever, non-originating articles\nmay be incorporated, provided that\ntheir total value does not exceed\n15% of the ex-works price of the set\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading, provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 50 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product\nManufacture from materials of any\nother heading provided that the\nvalue of all the materials used does\nnot exceed 40 % of the ex-works\nprice of the product', 'Manufacture in which the value of\nall the materials used does not\nexceed 50 % of the ex-works price\nof the product'], ['Chapter 97', "Works of art, collectors' pieces\nand antiques", 'Manufacture from materials of any\nother heading', '']]
                                                                        _______________ 
  APPENDIX 3 TO ANNEX I    TEXT OF THE ORIGIN DECLARATION REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 15   The Origin Declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance with the footnotes.  However, the footnotes do not have to be reproduced.  The Origin Declaration referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 15 shall have the following wording:   “The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs authorization No ...) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of ... preferential origin.”  ………………………………………………………………………………….  (Place and date)  ………………………………………………………………………………….  (Signature of the exporter; in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be indicated in clear script)   ………………………………………………………………………………….       (Remarks)                                                  
  APPENDIX 4 TO ANNEX I    EXEMPTIONS FROM THE PRINCIPLE OF TERRITORIALITY   1. In accordance with Article 13 of Annex I, the acquisition of originating status shall not be affected by working or processing carried out outside the territory of a Party on materials exported from the Party concerned and subsequently re-imported to that Party, provided that:   (a) the total added value as set out in paragraph 5(a) does not exceed 10 per cent of the ex-works price of the final product for which originating status is claimed; and    (b) the materials exported from the Party concerned shall be wholly obtained in that Party or having undergone working or processing going beyond the insufficient operations listed in Article 6 prior to being exported outside the territory of that Party.  2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, for products listed in the Table set out at the end of this Appendix, the acquisition of originating status shall not be affected by working or processing carried out in an area, for instance an industrial zone, outside the territory of a Party, on materials exported from the Party concerned and subsequently re-imported to that Party, provided that:   (a) the total value of non-originating input as set out in paragraph 5(b) does not exceed 40 per cent of the ex-works price of the final product for which originating status is claimed; and   (b) the value of originating materials exported from the Party concerned is not less than 60 per cent of the total value of materials used in manufacturing the re-imported material or product.  3. For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, it must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that the re-imported goods have been obtained by the manufacturer through the working or processing of the exported materials. For the purpose of paragraph 2 the following sentence shall be indicated in the origin declaration which is submitted to the customs authority of the importing Party: “The provisions of Appendix 4 to Annex I (Exemptions from the Principle of Territoriality) have been applied”.  4. For the purposes of paragraph 1, where a rule in Appendix 2 to Annex I restricts or prohibits the use of certain non-originating materials, such a restriction or prohibition shall also apply in respect of working or processing carried out outside the territory of the Party concerned.  Furthermore, where a rule in Appendix 2 to Annex I, giving the maximum value of all the non-originating materials used, is applied in determining the originating 
                                                                       status of the final product concerned, the total value of the non-originating input as set out in paragraph 5(b) shall not exceed the percentage given.  5. For the purposes of:  (a) paragraph 1, “total added value” shall mean the value of any materials added outside the Party concerned as well as costs accumulated outside the territory of the Party concerned, including transport costs; and  (b) paragraphs 2 and 4, “total value of non-originating input” shall mean the value of any non-originating materials added inside as well as any materials added and all other cost accumulated outside the Party concerned, including transport costs. Non-originating materials which have already acquired originating status in a Party shall not be considered to be non-originating input.  6 The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply to products which do not fulfil the conditions set out in Appendix 2 to Annex I and which can be considered sufficiently worked or processed only if the general tolerance given in paragraph 2 of Article 5 of Annex I is applied.  7. Any amendment to this Appendix, including the Table referred to paragraph 2, shall be made by a decision of the Joint Committee that is to be taken within a reasonable period of time, in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 7 of Article 8.1 of this Agreement.    8. In the third year after the entry into force of this Agreement, the Parties shall review the provisions and implementation of this Appendix and revise them if deemed necessary by the Parties.   _______________     
 Table   Chapter 39 Plastics and articles thereof   390710, 390720, 390810, 391000, 392113, 392310, 392330, 392350, 392390,  392690  Chapter 40 Rubber and articles thereof   401699  Chapter 42 Articles of leather; saddlery and harness; travel goods, handbags and similar containers; articles of animal gut (other than silk-worm gut)   420211, 420212, 420221  Chapter 61 Articles of apparel and clothing accessories, knitted or crocheted   610110, 610120, 610130, 610190, 610210, 610220, 610230, 610290, 610311,  610312, 610319, 610321, 610322, 610323, 610329, 610331, 610332, 610333, 610339, 610341, 610342, 610343, 610349, 610411, 610421, 610431, 610441, 610442, 610443, 610444, 610449, 610451, 610452, 610453, 610459, 610461, 610462, 610463, 610469, 610510, 610520, 610590, 610610, 610620, 610690, 610910, 610990, 611011, 611012, 611019, 611020, 611030, 611090, 611211, 611212, 611219, 611220, 611231, 611239, 611241, 611410, 611420, 611430, 611490  Chapter 62 Articles of apparel and clothing  accessories, not knitted or crocheted  620111, 620112, 620113, 620119, 620191, 620192, 620193, 620199, 620211, 620212, 620213, 620219, 620291, 620292, 620293, 620299, 620311, 620312,  620319, 620321, 620322, 620323, 620329, 620331, 620332, 620333,620339, 620341, 620343, 620349, 620411, 620412, 620413, 620419,620421, 620422, 620423, 620429, 620431, 620432, 620433, 620439, 620441,620442, 620443, 620444, 620449, 620451, 620452, 620453, 620459, 620461,620462, 620463, 620469, 620510, 620520, 620530, 620590, 620610, 620620,620630, 620640, 620690, 620711, 620719, 620721, 620722, 620729,620791, 620792, 620799, 620811, 620819, 620821, 620822, 620829, 620891,620892, 620899, 620910, 620920, 620930, 621010, 621020, 621030, 621040,621050, 621111, 621112, 621120, 621131, 621132, 621141, 621142, 621143,621149  Chapter 64 Footwear, gaiters and the like; parts of such articles   640299, 640399, 640411, 640610   
                                                                       Chapter 70 Glass and glassware   701590  Chapter 71 Natural or cultural pearls, precious or semiprecious stones, precious metals, metals clad with precious metal, and articles thereof; imitation jewellery; coin   711719, 711790  Chapter 73 Articles of iron or steel   732393  Chapter 81 Other base metals; cermets; articles thereof   810990  Chapter 82 Tools, implements, cutlery, spoons and forks, of base metal; parts thereof of base metal   820730, 821300  Chapter 83 Miscellaneous articles of base metal   830230  Chapter 84 Nuclear reactors, boilers, machinery and mechanical appliances; parts thereof  840991, 841330, 841510, 841582, 841583, 841590, 842123, 842131, 842139, 842410, 842420, 842490, 848590  Chapter 85 Electrical machinery and equipment and parts thereof; sound recorders and reproducers, television image and sound recorders and reproducers, and parts and accessories of such articles  850431, 851220, 851790, 852990, 853400, 853630, 853650, 853669, 853690, 853929, 854091  Chapter 87 Vehicles other than railway or tramway rolling-stock, and parts and accessories thereof    870991, 871499  Chapter 90 Optical, photographic, cinematographic, measuring, checking, precision, medical or surgical instruments and apparatus; parts and accessories thereof   902690  
                                                                       Chapter 91 Clocks and watches and parts thereof  910111, 910112, 910119, 910121, 910129, 910191, 910199, 910211, 910212, 910219, 910229, 910291, 910299, 910310, 910390, 910400, 910511, 910519, 910521, 910529, 910591, 910599, 910610, 910620, 910690, 910700, 910811, 910812, 910819, 910820, 910890, 910911, 910919, 910990, 911011, 911012, 911019, 911090, 911110, 911120, 911180, 911190, 911220, 911290, 911310, 911320, 911390, 911410, 911420, 911430, 911440, 911490  Chapter 96 Miscellaneous manufactured articles   961610   _______________ 
      ANNEX II  REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF ARTICLE 1.2  TERRITORIAL APPLICATION      
   ANNEX II   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 2 OF ARTICLE 1.2  TERRITORIAL APPLICATION     When ratifying this Agreement, the Kingdom of Norway shall have the right to exempt the territory of Svalbard from the application of this Agreement with the exception of trade in goods 
       ANNEX III   PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1(a) OF ARTICLE 2.1  
 ANNEX III   PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1(a) OF ARTICLE 2.1   HS Code  Description of products When imported into 29.05 Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nirosated derivatives:   - Other polyhydric alcohols:  2905.43 -- Mannitol Korea 2905.44 -- D-glucitol (sorbitol) Korea 3301 Essential oils (terpeneless or not), including concretes and absolutes; resinoids; extracted oleoresin; concentrates of essential oils in fats, in fixed oils, in waxes or the like, obtained by enfleurage or maceration; terpenic by-products of the deterpenation of essential oils; aqueous distillates and aqueous solutions of essential oils:  ex 3301.90 -Other, Oleoresin extracts of ginseng of white ginseng, red ginseng, and other genseng Korea 35.01 Casein, caseinates and other casein derivatives; casein glues. Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland Korea 35.02 Albumins (including concentrates of two or more whey proteins, containing by weight more than 80 % whey proteins, calculated on the dry matter), albuminates and other albumin derivatives:   -  Egg albumin:  3502.11 --  Dried Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland Korea 
  HS Code  Description of products When imported into 3502.19 --  Other Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland Korea  3502.20 - Milk albumin, including concentrates of two or more whey proteins  Norway  Korea 3502.90 - Other Norway Korea 3503.00 Gelatin (including gelatin in rectangular (including square) sheets, whether or not surface-worked or coloured) and gelatin derivatives; isinglass; other glues of animal origin, excluding casein glues of heading 35.01. Korea 3504.00 Peptones and their derivatives; other protein substances and their derivatives, not elsewhere specified or included; hide powder, whether or not chromed. Korea 35.05 Dextrins and other modified starches (for example, pregelatinised or esterified starches); glues based on starches, or on dextrins or other modified starches:  3505.10 - Dextrins and other modified starches Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland Korea 3505.20 - Glues Korea ex 3505.20 - Glues, for animal feeding Liechtenstein Switzerland 38.09 Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or fixing of dyestuffs and other products and preparations (for example, dressings and mordants), of a kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries, not elsewhere specified or included:  3809.10 - With a basis of amylaceous substances Korea 
  HS Code  Description of products When imported into ex 3809.10 - With a basis of amylaceous substances, for animal feeding Liechtenstein Switzerland 38.23 Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining; industrial fatty alcohols:   - Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids; acid oils from refining:  ex 3823.11 -- Stearic acid, for animal feeding  Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland ex 3823.12 -- Oleic acid, for animal feeding Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland ex 3823.13 -- Tall oil fatty acids, for animal feeding Norway ex 3823.19 -- Other, for animal feeding Norway Liechtenstein Switzerland ex 3823.70 - Industrial fatty alcohols, for animal feedingNorway 38.24 Prepared binders for foundry moulds or cores; chemical products and preparations of the chemical or allied industries (including those consisting of mixtures of natural products), not elsewhere specified or included:  3824.60 - Sorbitol other than that of subheading 2905.44 Korea _______________ 
  ANNEX IV  REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1(b) OF ARTICLE 2.1   PROCESSED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
 ANNEX IV   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1(b) OF ARTICLE 2.1  PROCESSED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS   Article 1  1. In order to take account of differences in the cost of the agricultural raw materials incorporated into the products referred to in Article 2, this Agreement does not preclude:  (a) the levying, upon import, of a duty; and  (b) the application of measures adopted upon export.  2. The duty levied upon import and measures adopted upon export shall be based on, but not exceed, the differences between the domestic price and the world market price of the agricultural raw materials incorporated into the products concerned.   Article 2  Taking into account the provisions laid down in Article 1 the EFTA States shall, based on reviews that can be requested by either Korea or an EFTA State, accord to products listed in Table 1, originating in Korea, treatment no less favourable than that accorded to the European Community on 1 April 2005.   Article 3  1. For products listed in Table 1, originating in an EFTA State, Korea shall accord treatment as specified in Table 2.  2. For products, for which the preferential duty rate is indicated as “B2”, the customs duties shall be gradually eliminated in six equal steps, with the first step taking effect on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, and the following steps taking effect on 1 January each year, starting on 1 January 2007 and with total elimination from 1 January 2011.  3. For products, for which the preferential duty rate is indicated as “B4”, the customs duties shall be gradually eliminated in 11 equal steps, with the first step taking effect on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, and the following steps taking effect on 1 January each year, starting on 1 January 2007 and with total elimination from 1 January 2016.   Article 4
 - 2 -    The Parties shall notify each other at an early stage, at least before the entry into force, of all measures applied under Article 1.    Article 5 Korea and the EFTA States shall review in the Joint Committee the development of their trade in products covered by this Annex. In the light of these reviews and taking into account the arrangements between the Parties and other free trade partners or in the WTO, Korea and the EFTA States shall decide on possible changes to the product coverage of this Annex, as well as on a possible development of the measures applied under Article 1.   _______________  
 TABLE 1 TO ANNEX IV     HS Code Description of products 0403 Buttermilk, curdled milk and cream, yogurt, kephir and other fermented or acidified milk and cream, whether or not concentrated or containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa:  - Yogurt: ex 10 -- Flavoured or containing added fruit, nuts or cocoa   - Other: ex 90 -- Flavoured or containing added fruits, nuts or cocoa  0501 Human hair, unworked, whether or not washed or scoured; waste of human hair. 0502 Pigs', hogs' or boars' bristles and hair; badger hair and other brush making hair; waste of such bristles or hair. 0503 Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up as a layer with or without supporting material. 0505 Skins and other parts or birds, with their feathers or down, feathers and parts of feathers (whether or not with trimmed edges) and down, not further worked than cleaned, disinfected or treated for preservation; powder and waste of feathers or parts of feathers. 0507 Ivory, tortoise-shell, whalebone and whalebone hair, horns, antlers, hooves, nails, claws and beaks, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape; powder and waste of these products. 0508 Coral and similar materials, unworked or simply prepared but not otherwise worked; shells of molluscs, crustaceans or echinoderms and cuttlebone, unworked or simply prepared but not cut to shape; powder and waste thereof. 0509 Natural sponges of animal origin. 0510 Ambergris, castoreum, civet and musk; cantharides; bile, whether or not dried; glands and other animal products used in the preparation of pharmaceutical products, fresh, chilled, frozen or otherwise provisionally preserved. 0710 Vegetables (uncooked or cooked by steaming or boiling in water), frozen:  
 - 2 -   HS Code Description of products 40 - Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 0711 Vegetables provisionally preserved (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions), but unsuitable in that state for immediate consumption:  ex 90 -  Other vegetables; mixtures of vegetables:  --   Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 0901 Coffee, whether or not roasted or decaffeinated; coffee husks and skins; coffee substitutes containing coffee in any proportion. 0902 Tea, whether or not flavoured. 1302 Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances, pectinates and pectates; agar-agar and other mucilages and thickeners, whether or not modified, derived from vegetable products:  - Vegetable saps and extracts: 12 -- Of liquorice 13 -- Of hops 14 -- Of pyrethrum or of the roots of plants containing rotenone ex 19 -- Other:  --- Intermixtures of vegetable extracts, for the manufacture of beverages or of food preparations  --- Other medicinal than intermixtures of vegetable extracts for the manufacture of beverages or of food preparations or of vanilla oleoresin 20 - Pectic substances, pectinates and pectates  - Mucilages and thickeners, modified, derived from vegetable products: 31 -- Agar-agar 32 -- Derived from locust beans, locust bean seeds or guar seeds 39 -- Other 1401 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily for plaiting (for example bamboos, rattans, reeds, rushes, osier, raffia, cleaned, bleached or dyed cereal straw, and of lime bark). 1402 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily as stuffing or as padding 
 - 3 -   HS Code Description of products (for example kapok, vegetable hair and eel-grass), whether or not put up as a layer with or without supporting material. 1403 Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily in brooms or in brushes (for example broomcorn piassava, couch-grass and istle), whether or not in hanks or bundles. 1404 Vegetable products not elsewhere specified or included. 1516 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, partly or wholly hydrogenated, inter-esterified, re-esterified or elaidinised, whether or not refined, but not further prepared: ex 20 - Vegetable fats and oils and their fractions:  -- Hydrogenated caster oil, so called “opal-wax” 1517 Margarine; edible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different fats or oils of this Chapter, other than edible fats or oils or their fractions of heading No 1516: ex 10 - Margarine, excluding liquid margarine:  --    Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk fats ex 90 - Other:     --    Containing more than 10 % but not more than 15 % by weight of milk fats  --    Edible mixtures or preparations of a kind used as mould release preparations 1518 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, boiled, oxidised, dehydrated, sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert gas otherwise chemically modified, excluding those of heading No 1516; inedible mixtures or preparations of animal or vegetable fats or oils or of fractions of different fats or oils of this Chapter, not elsewhere specified or included: ex 00 Linoxyn 1520 Glycerol, crude; glycerol waters and glycerol lyes.  1521 Vegetable waxes (other than triglycerides), beeswax, other insect waxes and spermaceti, whether or not refined or coloured. 1522 Degras; residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes.  
 - 4 -   HS Code Description of products 1702 Other sugars, including chemically pure lactose, maltose, glucose and fructose, in solid form; sugar syrups not containing added flavouring or colouring matter; artificial honey, whether or not mixed with natural honey; caramel: 50 - Chemically pure fructose ex 90 - Other, including invert sugar and other sugar and sugar syrup blends containing in the dry state 50% by weight of fructose:  --   Chemically pure maltose 1704 Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not containing cocoa. 1803 Cocoa paste, whether or not defatted. 1804 Cocoa butter, fat and oil. 1805 Cocoa powder, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter. 1806 Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa. 1901 Malt extract; food preparations of flour, groats, meal, starch or malt extract, not containing cocoa or containing less than 40% by weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included; food preparations of goods of headings Nos. 0401 to 0404, not containing cocoa or containing less than 5% by weight of cocoa calculated on a totally defatted basis, not elsewhere specified or included. 1902 Pasta, whether or not cooked or stuffed (with meat or other substances) or otherwise prepared, such as spaghetti, macaroni, noodles, lasagne, gnocchi, ravioli, cannelloni; couscous, whether or not prepared:  -   Uncooked pasta, not stuffed or otherwise prepared: 11 -- Containing eggs 19 -- Other ex 20  -   Stuffed pasta, whether or not cooked or otherwise prepared:   --    Other than products containing more than 20% by weight of sausage, meat, meat offal or blood, or any  combination thereof 30 -   Other pasta 40 -   Couscous 1903 Tapioca and substitutes therefor prepared from starch, in the form of 
 - 5 -   HS Code Description of products flakes, grains, pearls, siftings or in similar forms. 1904 Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereal products (for example, corn flakes); cereals (other than maize (corn)) in grain form or in the form of flakes or other worked grains (except flour,  groats and meal), pre-cooked, or otherwise prepared, not elsewhere specified or included. 1905 Bread, pastry, cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not containing cocoa; communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products. 2001 Vegetables, fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid: ex 90 - Other:  -- Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata); palm hearts; yams, sweet potatoes and similar edible parts of plants containing 5 % or more by weight of starch 2002 Tomatoes prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid: 90 - Other 2004 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, frozen, other than products of heading No. 20.06: ex 10 - Potatoes:  -- In the form of flour, meal or flakes ex 90 - Other vegetables and mixtures or vegetables:  -- Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata)  2005 Other vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid, not frozen, other than products of heading No. 20.06: ex 20 - Potatoes:  -- In the form of flour, meal or flakes 80 - Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 2006 Vegetables, fruit, nuts, fruit-peel and other parts of plants, preserved by sugar (drained, glacé or crystillised): ex 2006 - Sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 
 - 6 -   HS Code Description of products 2007 Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit or nut purée and fruit or nut pastes, being cooked preparations, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter. 2008 Fruit, nuts and other edible parts of plants, otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or spirit, not elsewhere specified or included:  - Nuts, ground-nuts and other seeds, whether or not mixed together: ex 11 -- Ground-nuts:  --- Peanut butter  ---    Ground nuts, roasted  - Other, including mixtures other than those of subheading No. 2008.19: 91 -- Palm hearts  ex 99 -- Other:   --- Maize (corn) other than sweet corn (Zea mays var. saccharata) 2101 Extracts, essences and concentrates, of coffee, tea or maté and preparations with a basis of these products or with a basis of coffee, tea or maté; roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes, and extracts, essences and concentrates thereof: 2102 Yeasts (active or inactive); other single-cell micro-organisms, dead (but not including vaccines of heading No. 3002); prepared baking powders. 2103 Sauces and preparations therefor; mixed Condiments and mixed seasonings; mustard Flour and meal and prepared mustard. 2104 Soups and broths and preparations therefor; homogenised composite food preparations. 2105 Ice cream and other edible ice, whether or not containing cocoa. 2106 Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included: 10 -   Protein concentrates and textured protein substances ex 90: -   Other:  -- Other than flavoured or couloured sugar syrups 2201 Waters, including natural or artificial mineral waters and aerated waters, not containing added sugar or other sweetening matter nor 
 - 7 -   HS Code Description of products flavoured; ice and snow. 2202 Waters, including mineral waters and aerated waters, containing added sugar or other sweetening matter or flavoured, and other non-alcoholic beverages, not including fruit or vegetable juices of heading No. 2009. 2203 Beer made from malt. 2205 Vermouth and other wine of fresh grapes flavoured with plants or aromatic substances. 2207 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of 80 % vol. or higher; ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength: 2207.20 - Ethyl alcohol and other spirits, denatured, of any strength 2208 Undenatured ethyl alcohol of an alcoholic strength by volume of less than 80% vol; spirits, liqueurs and other spirituous beverages. 2209 Vinegar and substitutes for vinegar obtained from acetic acid.    _______________  
     ANNEX V     REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1(c) OF ARTICLE 2.1   FISH AND OTHER MARINE PRODUCTS  
ANNEX V   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 ( c ) OF ARTICLE 2.1  FISH AND OTHER MARINE PRODUCTS    Article 1 Fish and other marine products, as listed in Table 1 below, are covered by the provisions of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided for in this Annex.  Table 1  
[['Heading\nNo.', 'H.S.\nCode', 'Description of products']]
 02.08  Other meat and edible meat offal, fresh, chilled or frozen:  ex 0208.40 - Of whale   Fish and crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic invertebrates. 15.04  Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish or marine mammals, whether or not refined, but not chemically modified. 15.16  Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their fractions, partly or wholly hydrogenated, inter-esterified, re-esterified or elaidinised, whether or not refined, but not further prepared:  ex 1516.10 - Animal fats and oils and their fractions:   - - Obtained entirely from fish or marine mammals                                                         
 16.03  Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates:  ex 1603.00 - Extracts and juices of whale meat, fish or crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates 16.04  Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar substitutes prepared from fish eggs.  16.05  Crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates, prepared or preserved. 23.01  Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal, of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates, unfit for human consumption; greaves:  ex 2301.10 - Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal; greaves:   - - Of whale  2301.20 - Flours, meals and pellets of fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other aquatic invertebrates 23.09  Preparations of a kind used in animal feeding:  ex 2309.90 - Other:   - - Fish solubles    Article 2  Upon the date of entry into force of this Agreement Korea and the EFTA States shall abolish all customs duties on imports and charges having equivalent effect for products listed in Table 1 originating in Korea or in an EFTA State, unless otherwise specified in Articles 3 and 4 of this Annex   Article 3 Switzerland, including the territory of the Principality of Liechtenstein, may maintain customs duties on imports of products originating in Korea, listed in Table 2 below.                                                         
   Table 2  
[['Heading No.', 'Description of products'], ['ex 15.04 and ex 1516.10\nex 2301.10 and ex 2301.20\nex 2309.90', 'Fats and oils for human consumption\nFeedingstuffs for production animals\nFeedingstuffs for production animals']]
    Article 4 1.  Korea shall abolish customs duties on imports and charges having equivalent effect on products listed in Table 3 originating in an EFTA State in accordance with the customs duty elimination schedules as provided for in paragraphs 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.  2. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed under category “B1” in Table 3 shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of the Agreement to 75% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 50% of basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 25% of basic duty, • 1 January 2009 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  3. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed under category “B2” in Table 3 shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of the Agreement to 83% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 67% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 50% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 to 34% of the basic duty • 1 January 2010 to 17% of the basic duty  • 1 January 2011 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  4. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed under category “B3” in Table 3 shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of the Agreement to 87% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 75% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 62% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 to 50% of the basic duty • 1 January 2010 to 37% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2011 to 25% of the basic duty,  • 1 January 2012 to 12% of the basic duty, 
 • 1 January 2013 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  5. Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed under category “B4” in Table 3 shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of the Agreement to 91% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 82% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 73% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 to 64% of the basic duty  • 1 January 2010 to 55 % of the basic duty, • 1 January 2011 to 45% of the basic duty  • 1 January 2012 to 36% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2013 to 27% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2014 to 18% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2015 to 9% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2016 the remaining duties shall be abolished  6. For products originating in an EFTA State listed under category “TRQ” in the Table 3 to this Annex a tariff rate quota system shall be applied by Korea, in accordance with the following:  (a)  The annual aggregate quota quantity shall be 500 metric tons.  (b) The in-quota rate of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of those products originating in an EFTA State shall be free.   (c) The out quota rate of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on import into Korea of those products originating in an EFTA State shall be applied by most-favored-nation applied rate of Korea.  (d) For the purpose of subparagraphs (a) and (b) in this present paragraph, the tariff rate quota shall be implemented by the importing Party. The tariff rate quota shall be administered by the importing Party in cooperation with the exporting Party, and the aggregate quota percentage shall be allocated by the importing Party.   (e) The tariff rate quota shall be reviewed from the year six after the entry into force of this Agreement.   7. Abolishment of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed in Table 3 to this Annex under category “R” and the dismantling schedules shall be reviewed in the Joint-Committee no later than seven years after the entry into force of this Agreement recognizing the overall objective of this Agreement.    
Table 3  
[['', 'HS Code', '', '', 'Description of Products', '', '', 'Base Rate', '', '', 'Category', ''], ['0208', None, None, 'Other meat and edible meat offal, fresh, chilled\nor frozen.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0208400000', None, None, 'Of whales, dolphins and porpoises (mammals of the\norder Cetacea); of manatees and dugongs\n(mammals of the order Sirenia)6', None, None, '30', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301', None, None, 'Live fish.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030110', None, None, 'Ornamental fish', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0301101000', None, None, 'Gold carp', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301102000', None, None, 'Tropical fish', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301109000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['03019', None, None, 'Other live fish:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030192', None, None, 'Eels (Anguilla spp.)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0301921000', None, None, 'Glass eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301929000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '30% or\n1,908won/㎏,\nwhichever is\nthe greater', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301930000', None, None, 'Carp', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['030199', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0301992000', None, None, 'Yellow tail', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301994000', None, None, 'Sea-bream', None, None, '45% or\n3,292won/㎏,\nwhichever is\nthe greater', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301995000', None, None, 'Conger eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301996000', None, None, 'Sharp toothed eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301997000', None, None, 'Salad eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301998000', None, None, 'Flat fish', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['03019990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0301999010', None, None, 'True bass', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999020', None, None, 'Puffers', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999030', None, None, 'Tilapia', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999040', None, None, 'Rock fish (including pacific ocean perch)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999050', None, None, 'Sea bass', None, None, '45', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999060', None, None, 'Mullets', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999070', None, None, 'Loaches', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999080', None, None, 'Cat fishes', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['030199909', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0301999091', None, None, 'Rock Trout (Hexagrammos spp., Agrammus spp.)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999092', None, None, 'Crusian carp', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999094', None, None, 'Grass carp', None, None, '10', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999095', None, None, 'Croakers', None, None, '36', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0301999099', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0302', None, None, 'Fish,fresh or chilled,excluding fish fillets and\nother fish meat of heading 03.04.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03023', None, None, 'Tunas (of the genus Thunnus) skipjack or stripe-\nbellied bonito (Euthynnus (Katsuwonus)\npelamis),excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0302320000', None, None, 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302340000', None, None, 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03026', None, None, 'Other fish,excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0302610000', None, None, 'Sardines (sardina pilchardus, sardinops spp.),\nsardinella(sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(sprattus sprattus)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0302640000', None, None, 'Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0302650000', None, None, 'Dogfish and other sharks', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0302660000', None, None, 'Eels (Anguilla spp.)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030269', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0302691000', None, None, 'Alaska pollack', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0302692000', None, None, 'Yellow tail', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302693000', None, None, 'Hair tail', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302694000', None, None, 'Sea-bream', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302695000', None, None, 'Conger eel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302696000', None, None, 'Sharp toothed eel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302697000', None, None, 'Horse mackerel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302698000', None, None, 'Saury (including horn fish)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03026990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0302699010', None, None, 'Chub mackerel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302699020', None, None, 'Puffers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302699030', None, None, 'Pomfret', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0302699040', None, None, 'Angler (Monkfish)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030270', None, None, 'Livers and roes', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303', None, None, 'Fish, frozen, excluding fish fillets and other fish\nmeat of heading 03.04.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03031', None, None, 'Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus\nnerka,Oncorhynchus gorbuscha, Onorchynchus\nketa, Oncorhynchus tschawytscha Oncorhynchus\nkisutch, Oncorhynchus masou and Oncorhynchus\nrhodurus),excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303110000', None, None, 'Sockeye salmon (red salmon) (Oncorhynchus\nnerka)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303190000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03032', None, None, 'Other salmonidae, excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303220000', None, None, 'Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) and Danube salmon\n(Hucho hucho)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['0303290000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03033', None, None, 'Flat fish (Pleuronectidae, Bothidae, Cynoglossidae,\nSoleidae, Scophthalmidae and Citharidae),\nexcluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303330000', None, None, 'Sole (Solea spp.)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303390000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03034', None, None, 'Tunas (of genus Thunnus),skipjack or stripe-bellied\nbonito (Euthynnus (Katsuwonus)\npelamis),excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303420000', None, None, 'Yellowfin tunas (Thunnus albacares)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303430000', None, None, 'Skipjack or stripe-bellied bonito', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303440000', None, None, 'Bigeye tunas (Thunnus obesus)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303490000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303600000', None, None, 'Cod (Gadus morhua,Gadus ogac,Gadus\nmacrocephalus) excluding livers and roes', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03037', None, None, 'Other fish, excluding livers and roes:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303710000', None, None, 'Sardines (Sardina pilchardus, Sardinops spp.),\nsardinella (Sardinella spp.), brisling or sprats\n(Sprattus sprattus)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303740000', None, None, 'Mackerel (Scomber scombrus, Scomber\naustralasicus, Scomber japonicus)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'TRQ', None, None], ['0303750000', None, None, 'Dogfish and other sharks', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303780000', None, None, 'Hake (Merluccius spp.,Urophycis spp.)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030379', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303791000', None, None, 'Alaska pollack', None, None, '30', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0303792000', None, None, 'Sable fish', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303793000', None, None, 'Hair tail', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03037940', None, None, 'Sea-bream', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303794010', None, None, 'Red horsehead fish (Branchiostegus Japonicus)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303794090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303795000', None, None, 'Conger eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303796000', None, None, 'Yellow corvina', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303797000', None, None, 'Horse mackerel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0303798000', None, None, 'Saury (including horn fish)', None, None, '40', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['03037990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303799010', None, None, 'Chub mackerel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799020', None, None, 'Puffers', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799030', None, None, 'White sea smelt', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799050', None, None, 'John dory', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799060', None, None, 'Atka mackerel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799070', None, None, 'Rock fish (including pacific ocean perch)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799080', None, None, 'Whip tail or hoki', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['030379909', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303799091', None, None, 'Angler (Monkfish)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799092', None, None, 'Hagfish (Pacific,Atlantic)', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799093', None, None, 'Skate', None, None, '30', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0303799094', None, None, 'Milk fish', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0303799095', None, None, 'Croakers', None, None, '70', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0303799096', None, None, 'Ray', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799097', None, None, 'Sand lance', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799098', None, None, 'Tooth fishes', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303799099', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030380', None, None, 'Livers and roes', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303801000', None, None, 'Livers', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03038020', None, None, 'Roes', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0303802010', None, None, 'Of alaska pollack', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0303802090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['0304', None, None, 'Fish fillets and other fish meat (whether or not\nminced), fresh, chilled or frozen.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030410', None, None, '1. Fresh or chilled', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03041010', None, None, 'Fillets', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0304101010', None, None, 'Of conger-eel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304101020', None, None, 'Of plaice', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304101030', None, None, 'Of bluefin tunas', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030420', None, None, '2. Frozen fillets', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0304201000', None, None, 'Of alaska pollack', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304202000', None, None, 'Of conger-eel', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304204000', None, None, 'Of plaice', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304205000', None, None, 'Of bluefin tunas', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0304206000', None, None, 'Of tooth fishes', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304207000', None, None, 'Of tilapia', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304209000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['030490', None, None, '3. Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03049010', None, None, 'Frozen fish surimi', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0304901010', None, None, 'Of alaska pollack', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304901090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0304909000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0305', None, None, 'Fish, dried,salted or in brine; smoked fish,\nwhether or not cooked before or during the\nsmoking process; lours, meals and pellets of fish,\nfit for human consumption.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030520', None, None, 'Livers and roes of fish, dried, smoked, salted or in\nbrine', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03052040', None, None, 'Roes, salted or in brine', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305204010', None, None, 'Of alaska pollack', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305204020', None, None, 'Of yellow corvina', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305204030', None, None, 'Of herrings', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305204090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['03054', None, None, 'Smoked fish, including fillets:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030549', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305491000', None, None, 'Anchovies', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305492000', None, None, 'Alaska pollack', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305499000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03055', None, None, 'Dried fish, whether or not salted but not smoked:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030559', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305591000', None, None, "Sharks' fins", None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305592000', None, None, 'Anchovy', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305593000', None, None, 'Alaska pollack', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305594000', None, None, 'Yellow corvina', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305595000', None, None, 'Puffers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0305596000', None, None, 'Sharp toothed eel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0305597000', None, None, 'Sand lance', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305599000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03056', None, None, 'Fish, salted but not dried or smoked and fish in\nbrine:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305610000', None, None, 'Herrings (Clupea harengus, Clupea pallasii)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030563', None, None, 'Anchovies (Engraulis spp.)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305631000', None, None, 'Salt fermented anchovy', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0305639000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['030569', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0305693000', None, None, 'Hair tail', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305694000', None, None, 'Sardines', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0305695000', None, None, 'Mackerel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305696000', None, None, 'Yellow corvina', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0305697000', None, None, 'Horse mackerel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0305698000', None, None, 'Saury (including horn fish)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0306', None, None, 'Crustaceans, whether in shell or not, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried salted or in brine;\ncrustaceans, in shell, cooked by steaming or by\nboiling in water, whether or not chilled, frozen,\ndried, salted or in brine; flours, meals and\npellets of crustaceans, fit for human\nconsumption.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03061', None, None, 'Frozen:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0306110000', None, None, 'Rock lobster and other sea crawfish (Palinurus spp.,\npanulirus spp.,Jasus spp.)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030613', None, None, 'Shrimps and prawns', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0306131000', None, None, 'Peeled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0306139000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '27', None, None, '', None, None], ['', None, None, '−Of specie Pandalus borealis', None, None, '', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['', None, None, '−Of other than of Pandalus borealis', None, None, '', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0306142000', None, None, 'King crabs', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0306143000', None, None, 'Blue crabs', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0306149000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '14', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03062', None, None, 'Not frozen:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030623', None, None, 'Shrimps and prawns', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0306232000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0306233000', None, None, 'Salted or in brine', None, None, '55% or\n363won/㎏,\nwhichever is\nthe greater', None, None, '', None, None], ['', None, None, '−Of specie Pandalus borealis', None, None, '', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['', None, None, '−Of other than of Pandalus borealis', None, None, '', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['030624', None, None, 'Crabs', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03062410', None, None, 'Live,fresh or chilled', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0306241010', None, None, 'Blue crab', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0306241020', None, None, 'Snow crab', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0306242000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0306243000', None, None, 'Salted or in brine', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030629', None, None, 'Other, including flours, meals and pellets of\ncrustaceans,fit for human consumption', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0306291000', None, None, 'Live,fresh or chilled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0306292000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307', None, None, 'Molluscs, whether in shell or not, live, fresh,\nchilled, frozen, dried, salted or in brine; aquatic\ninvertebrates other than crustaceans and\nmolluscs, live, fresh, chilled, frozen, dried, salted\nor in brine; flours, meals and pellets of aquatic\ninvertebrates other than crustaceans, fit for\nhuman consumption.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030710', None, None, '1. Oysters.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03071010', None, None, 'A. Live fresh or chilled', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307101090', None, None, '(2) Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307102000', None, None, 'B. Frozen', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0307103000', None, None, 'C. Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307104000', None, None, 'D. Salted or in brine', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03072', None, None, '2. Scallops, including queen scallops, of the genera\nPecten, Chlamys or Placopecten:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307210000', None, None, 'Live, fresh or chilled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030729', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307291000', None, None, 'Frozen', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B3', None, None], ['0307293000', None, None, 'Salted or in brine', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03073', None, None, '3. Mussels (Mytilus spp.,Perna spp.):', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307310000', None, None, 'Live, fresh or chilled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030739', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307392000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['03074', None, None, '4. Cuttle fish (Sepia officinalis, Rossia macrosoma,\nSepiola spp.) and squid (Ommastrephes spp.,Loligo\nspp.,Nototodarus spp.,Sepioteuthis spp.):', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030741', None, None, 'Live, fresh or chilled', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307412000', None, None, 'Squid', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['030749', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03074910', None, None, 'Frozen', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307491010', None, None, 'Cuttle fish', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307491020', None, None, 'Squid', None, None, '27', None, None, 'R', None, None], ['0307492000', None, None, 'Salted or in brine', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307493000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '10', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03075', None, None, '5. Octopus (Octopus spp.):', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307510000', None, None, 'Live, fresh or chilled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['030759', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03075910', None, None, 'Frozen', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307591010', None, None, 'Octopus', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307591020', None, None, 'Poulp squid', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307591030', None, None, 'Webfoot octopus', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307591090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307592000', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307599000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079', None, None, '7. Other, including flours, meals and pellets of\naquatic invertebrates other than crustaceans, fit for\nhuman consumption:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['030791', None, None, 'Live, fresh or chilled', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307911', None, None, 'Molluscs', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03079111', None, None, 'Hard clams', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307911190', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307911200', None, None, 'Abalone', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307911300', None, None, 'Top shells', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307911400', None, None, 'Pearl oyster', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307911500', None, None, 'Ark shells', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307911700', None, None, 'Adductors of shell fish', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307911800', None, None, 'Baby clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079119', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307911910', None, None, 'Marsh clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307911990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079190', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307919010', None, None, 'Sea-urchins', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307919020', None, None, 'Sea-cucumbers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307919030', None, None, 'Sea-squirts', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307919090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['030799', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307991', None, None, 'Frozen', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03079911', None, None, 'Molluscs', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307991110', None, None, 'Cockles', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307991120', None, None, 'Hen clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307991130', None, None, 'Baby clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307991140', None, None, 'Adductors of shell fish', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307991150', None, None, 'Ark shells', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307991160', None, None, 'Top shells (frozen)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307991190', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079919', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307991910', None, None, 'Sea-cucumbers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307991920', None, None, 'Sea-squirts', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307991990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307992', None, None, 'Dried', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03079921', None, None, 'Molluscs', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307992110', None, None, 'Hen clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307992120', None, None, 'Adductors of shell fish', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307992190', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079929', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307992920', None, None, 'Sea-cucumbers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307992990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307993', None, None, 'Salted or in brine', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['03079931', None, None, 'Molluscs', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307993110', None, None, 'Hen clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307993120', None, None, 'Baby clams', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307993130', None, None, 'Top shells (salted or brine)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307993190', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['03079939', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['0307993910', None, None, 'Sea-urchins', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307993920', None, None, 'Sea-cucumbers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['0307993930', None, None, 'Jelly fish', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['0307993990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1212', None, None, 'Locust beans,seaweeds and other algae,sugar\nbeet and sugar cane,fresh,chilled,frozen or\ndried,whether or not ground; fruit stones and\nkernels and other vegetable products(including\nunroasted chicory roots of the variety cichorium\nintybus sativum) of a kin', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220', None, None, '2. Seaweeds and other algae', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122010', None, None, 'A. Laver', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122020', None, None, 'B. Sea mustard(Undaria pinnatifida)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122030', None, None, 'C. Sea-weed fusiforme(Hizikia fusiforme)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122040', None, None, 'D. Green laver', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122050', None, None, 'E. Sea tangle(Laminaria Japonica)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122060', None, None, 'F. Agar-agar(Gelidium amansil)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122070', None, None, 'G. Tenella,moulded tenax and furcata', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220701', None, None, '(1) Tenella', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220702', None, None, '(2) Moulded tenax', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220703', None, None, '(3) Furcata', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122080', None, None, 'H. Typicus,irish-moss and kelp meal', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220801', None, None, '(1) Typicus', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220802', None, None, '(2) Irish-moss', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220803', None, None, '(3) Kelp meal', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['12122090', None, None, 'I. Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220901', None, None, '(1) Cottonni and spinosum', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['121220909', None, None, '(2) Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1504', None, None, 'Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish or\nmarine mammals, whether or not refined, but\nnot chemically modified.7', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1504200000', None, None, '2. Fats and oils and their fractions, of fish, other\nthan liver oils.', None, None, '3', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['160300', None, None, 'Extracts and juices of meat, fish or crustaceans,\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1603003000', None, None, 'Fish extracts', None, None, '30', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1603004000', None, None, 'Fish juices', None, None, '30', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1603009000', None, None, 'Other8', None, None, '30', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604', None, None, 'Prepared or preserved fish; caviar and caviar\nsubstitutes prepared from fish eggs.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16041', None, None, 'Fish,whole or in pieces,but not minced:', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['160411', None, None, 'Salmon', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604111000', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160412', None, None, 'Herrings', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604121000', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604129000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160413', None, None, 'Sardines, sardinella and brisling or sprats', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604131000', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1604139000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160414', None, None, 'Tunas,skipjack and bonito (Sarda spp.)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16041410', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['160414101', None, None, 'Tunas', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604141011', None, None, 'In oil', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604141019', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160414102', None, None, 'Skipjack', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604141021', None, None, 'In oil', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604141022', None, None, 'Boiled', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604141029', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160414103', None, None, 'Bonito', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604141039', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604149000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['160415', None, None, 'Mackerel', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604151000', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1604159000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['160416', None, None, 'Anchovies', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604161000', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1604169000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160419', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16041910', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604191010', None, None, 'Saury', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604191020', None, None, 'Horse mackerel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604191030', None, None, 'Eels (anguilla spp)', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1604191090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['16041990', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604199010', None, None, 'Jerk filefish', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1604199090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['160420', None, None, 'Other prepared or presrved fish', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604201000', None, None, 'Fish pastes', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604202000', None, None, 'Fish marinade', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['16042040', None, None, 'Fish cake', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604204010', None, None, 'Of crab flavor', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604204090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1604209000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['160430', None, None, 'Caviar and caviar substitutes', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1604301000', None, None, 'Caviar', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605', None, None, 'Crustaceans, molluscs and other aquatic\ninvertebrates, prepared or preserved.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['160510', None, None, 'Crab', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16051010', None, None, 'Crab meat', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605101010', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605101020', None, None, 'Smoked, excluding in airtight containers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605101090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605109000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['160520', None, None, 'Shrimps and prawns', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16052090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605209020', None, None, 'Breaded', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605209090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['160590', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['16059010', None, None, 'In airtight containers', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605901010', None, None, 'Oysters', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605901020', None, None, 'Mussels', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605901030', None, None, 'Baby clam', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605901080', None, None, 'Squid', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['160590109', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605901091', None, None, 'Abalone', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['1605901099', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['16059020', None, None, 'Smoked, excluding in airtight containers', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605902010', None, None, 'Squid', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605902090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['16059090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['1605909010', None, None, 'Seasoned squid', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605909020', None, None, 'Sea-cucumbers', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605909030', None, None, 'Bai top shell', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605909040', None, None, 'Mussel', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['1605909090', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '20', None, None, 'B4', None, None], ['2104', None, None, 'Soups and broths and preparations therefor;\nhomogenised composite food preparations.', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['210410', None, None, 'Soups and broths and preparations therefor', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['2104102000', None, None, 'Of fish', None, None, '30', None, None, 'B2', None, None], ['2301', None, None, 'Flours, meals and pellets, of meat or meat offal,\nof fish or of crustaceans, molluscs or other\naquatic invertebrates, unfit for human\nconsumption; greaves.9', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['230120', None, None, '2. Flours meals and pellets, of fish or of crustaceans\nmolluscs or other aquatic invertebrates', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['2301201000', None, None, 'Flours, meals and pellets of fish', None, None, '5', None, None, 'B1', None, None], ['2301209000', None, None, 'Other', None, None, '5', None, None, 'B2', None, None]]
  Article 5  Technical Cooperation  1.  The Parties agree to take joint action on fisheries, in accordance with their national policy objectives, in order to facilitate the implementation of the overall objectives of this Agreement.  2.  In particular, the Parties shall endeavor to establish cooperation for jointly funded projects of common interests including, but not limited to, the following:  (a) Policy dialogue to understand common issues and exchange of information on the development of the Parties policies and activities;  (b) Sharing technical expertise and experience in sustainable resource management, fisheries and aquaculture;  (c) Training fishermen and students on Norwegian research vessels, in fishery facilities and distribution companies;  (d) Exchange of scientific and technological knowledge, data, statistics, information and marine experts.  3. Parties shall conclude a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) no later than two years after the entry into force of the Agreement. A joint working group established under the MoU shall set up a working program for the implementation of the present Article.       
      ANNEX VI  REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 OF ARTICLE 2.3   CUSTOMS DUTIES       
 ANNEX VI   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 OF ARTICLE 2.3  CUSTOMS DUTIES     1. Customs duties on imports into Korea on products originating in an EFTA State listed in the Appendix categorized as Category “B1” shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of this Agreement to 75% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 50% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 25% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  2. Customs duties on imports into Korea on products originating in an EFTA State listed in the Appendix categorized as Category “B2” shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of this Agreement to 83% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 67% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 50% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 to 34% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2010 to 17% of the basic duty,  • 1 January 2011 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  3. Customs duties on imports into Korea on products originating in an EFTA State listed in the Appendix categorized as Category “B3” shall be gradually eliminated in accordance with the following schedule:  • On the entry into force of this Agreement to 87% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2007 to 75% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2008 to 62% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2009 to 50% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2010 to 37% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2011 to 25% of the basic duty,  • 1 January 2012 to 12% of the basic duty, • 1 January 2013 the remaining duties shall be abolished.  4. Abolishment of customs duties on imports into Korea of products originating in an EFTA State listed in category “R” in the Appendix shall be reviewed in the Joint Committee no later than three years after the date of entry into force of this 
 Agreement and thereafter, if need be, in two-year intervals. In the meantime, Korea undertakes to extend to the EFTA States the same preferential treatment that it may grant another country for imports of these products.   ______________ 
      ANNEX VII    REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 3 OF ARTICLE 3.16   SCHEDULES OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS  
APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX VII  KOREA – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3.16 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ʺUnbound*ʺ means unbound due to lack of technical feasibility.\nʺ**ʺ Double asterisks on the CPC (UN provisional Central Product Classification : Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Department of International Economic and Social\nAffairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991) Code number indicates that the corresponding service sub-sector in this schedule only covers a part or\nparts of the service sub-sector classified under the given CPC code number.', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '3) The acquisition of outstanding stocks of existing\ndomestic companies in such areas as energy and\naviation by natural person or juridical persons of\nanother Member may be restricted. The foreign\ninvestment in newly privatized companies may\nbe restricted.', '3) The acquisition of land is unbound except:\n(i) that the acquisition of land by companies\nwhich are not deemed as foreign under\nthe\nAlien Land Law is permitted, and\n(ii) that the acquisition of land by companies\nwhich are deemed as foreign under the\nAlien Land Law and branches of foreign\ncompany is permitted, subject to approval\nor notification in accordance with the\nAlien Land Law, for the following\nlegitimate business purposes:\n- land used for supplying services\nduring the course of normal business\nactivities;\n- land used for housing senior\ncompany personnel under\npertinent laws; and', '3) Residents who have\nbeen treated as\nforeigners in the\nSecurities Exchange\nAct are accorded\nnational treatment in\nportfolio investment\nin Korean stocks.']]
- 3 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '4) Unbound except for measures affecting the\nentry and temporary stay of natural persons as\ndefined below:\nA. Intra-corporate Transferees (ICT)\nNatural persons who are employees of firms\nthat supply services through subsidiaries,\nbranches, or designated affiliates established\nin Korea and who have been in the employ of\ntheir firm for a period of not less than one\nyear immediately preceding the date of their\napplication for admission and who are one of\nthe following:\n(i) Executives - persons within an organization\nwho primarily direct the management of the\norganization, exercise wide latitude in\ndecision-making, and receive only general\nsupervision or direction from higher-level\nexecutives, the board of directors, or\nshareholders of the business. Executives\nwould not directly perform tasks related to the\nactual supply of a service or services of the\norganization.', '- land used for fulfilling land-\nholding requirements stipulated by\npertinent laws\nEligibility for subsidies, including tax benefits,\nmay be limited to companies which are\nestablished in Korea according to the pertinent\nlaws.\nUnbound for research and development\nsubsidies.\n4) Unbound except for measures concerning Intra-\ncorporate Transferees (ICT), Business Visitors\n(BV), Service Salespersons (SS).\nUnbound for Contractual Service Suppliers\n(CSS)\nThe acquisition of land is unbound except that\nthe lease hold right of land is permitted.\nEligibility for subsidies, including tax benefits,\nmay be limited to residents according to the\npertinent laws.', '']]
- 4 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', '(ii) Senior Managers- persons within an\norganization who primarily direct the\norganization or a department of the\norganization; supervise and control the work\nof other supervisory, professional or\nmanagerial employees; have the authority to\nhire and fire or recommend hiring, firing or\nother personnel actions; and exercise\ndiscretionary authority over day-to-day\noperations. Senior managers do not include\nfirst-line supervisors, unless the employees\nsupervised are professionals, nor do they\ninclude employees who primarily perform\ntasks necessary for the supply of the service.\n(iii) Specialists-persons within an organization\nwho possess knowledge at an advanced\nlevel of continued expertise and proprietary\nknowledge on the services, research\nequipment, techniques, or management of\nthe organization.\nEntry and stay of natural persons as defined in A\nis limited to a period not exceeding three years\nthat may be extended if the above condition is\nstill met by the applicants.\nB. Business Visitors (BV)\nNatural persons meeting the criteria of\ncategory A(i) or A(ii) and who are\nresponsible for the setting up, in Korea, of a\ncommercial presence of a service supplier of\na Member when the service supplier has no\nrepresentative office, branch or subsidiary in\nKorea and the persons are not engaged in\nmaking direct sales or supplying services.', '', '']]
- 5 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments'], ['', 'C. Service Salespersons (SS)\nNatural persons not based in the territory of\nKorea and receiving no remuneration from a\nsource located within Korea, who are\nengaged in activities or representing a service\nsupplier for the purpose of negotiating for the\nsale of the services of that supplier when such\nsales are not directly made to the general\npublic and the persons are not engaged in\nsupplying the services.\nEntry and stay of natural persons as defined in B\nand C is limited to a period of 90 days.', '', ''], ['Notes for transparency purposes:\n1. Subsidiary is defined as a firm, corporation or other legal entity of which a parent owns more than 50 per cent of the total equity of the entity.\n2. Branch is defined as an operating division or a representative office of the same organization, which has an employee holding an extensive right to represent a\nparent housed in the territory of any other WTO Member.\n3. The designated affiliate is defined as one of two subsidiaries, both of which are owned or controlled by the same parent, or as one of two legal entities, both of\nwhich are owned or controlled by the same group of shareholders who are partners of a partnership, a company or other legal entity and who have more than 50\nper cent of the total equity of each of the two entities or have a responsibility for more than 50 per cent of the total investment amount of each of the two\nentities.', None, None, None]]
- 6 -  
[['Limitations on Market Access\nD. Contractual Service Suppliers (CSS) -\nEmployees of juridical person\nNatural persons who are engaged in the supply of\na contracted service as employees of a juridical\nperson that has no commercial presence in Korea,\nsubject to the following conditions and any of the\nadditional conditions mentioned in the sector\nspecific part.1\nThe juridical person has to obtain a service\ncontract for a period not exceeding one year from\na juridical person incorporated in Korea, who is\nthe final consumer of the service which is\nsupplied. The contract shall comply with the laws\nand regulations of Korea.\nThe natural persons seeking access should be\nemployees of the juridical person, who are\nsupplying the service for a period not less than\none year immediately preceding the date of their\napplication for admission.\nThe natural persons must possess the necessary\nacademic and professional qualifications and\nprofessionally qualified competency-based\nexperience to exercise an activity in the sector\nconcerned pursuant to the laws, regulations or\nrequirements of Korea and to accreditations in\nrelevant international organizations to which all\nparties are members.', 'Limitations on National Treatment']]
- 7 -  
[['Limitations on Market Access\nThe natural persons are required to receive no\nremuneration from a juridical person located in\nKorea.\nCommitments may be subject to the application\nof a numerical ceiling2, except where otherwise\nindicated for a specific sub-sector.\nThe contract is required to be obtained in the\nfollowing service-supplying activities or sub-\nsectors, without conferring entitlement to exercise\nthe professional title of Korea.\n- Services related to the installation,\nmaintenance, management or repair of\nindustrial equipment or machine,\nexcluding construction and power\ngeneration equipment, for a juridical\nperson in Korea which purchases the\nequipment or the machine from a juridical\nperson employing the natural person\nlocated in any other WTO Member\n- Consultancy services related to the\ntechnical knowledge or skill concerning\nthe natural science applied to information\ntechnology, e-business, biotechnology,\nnanotechnology, digital electronics, and\nenvironmental industry\n- Consultancy service for foreign\naccounting standards and auditing,\ntraining of CPAs, transfer of auditing\ntechnology and exchange of information\nrelated to accounting, auditing and\nbookkeeping services, to a Korean\naccounting firm or office through a\nmembership contract', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional\nCommitments']]
- 8 -  
[['Engineering except for environmental'], ['engineering (CPC 8672, 8673)']]
- 9 -  
[['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services\na. Legal services;\n(CPC 861**)\nAdvisory Services on law of\nthe jurisdiction where service\nsupplier is qualified as a\nlawyer and on public\ninternational law, excluding\nthe following :\n(i) representation for\njuridical or statutory\nprocedures in courts\nand other government\nagencies as well as\npreparation of legal\ndocuments for such\nprocedures ;\n(ii) legal representation\nfor the entrustment of\nthe preparation of\nnotarial deeds;', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Only in the form of representative\noffice. Association with or employment\nof local lawyers with Korean\nqualification or equivalent is not\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\nCommercial presence is required.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign legal consultants are required to\nstay in Korea not less than 180 days per\nyear.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '(i) Representation in\ninternational\ncommercial\narbitration is\npermitted, provided\nthat the applicable\nprocedural and\nsubstantive laws in\nthe arbitration are\nthe laws which the\nforeign legal\nconsultant is\nqualified to practice\nin Korea.\n(ii) Use of firm name is\npermitted, provided\nthat it is used with\nreference to "foreign\nlegal consultants\noffice" in Korean']]
- 10 -  
- 11 -  
- 12 -  
- 13 -  
- 14 -  
- 15 -  
- 16 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['C. Research and Development\nServices\na. Research and development\nservices on natural sciences\n(CPC 851)\nb. Research and development\nservices on social sciences\nand humanities\n(CPC 852)\nc. Interdisciplinary research\nand development services\n(CPC 853)\nD. Real Estate Services\nBrokerage services\n(CPC 82203**, 82204**,\n82205**, 82206**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 17 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['Appraisal services\n(CPC 82201**, 82202**)\nExcluding appraisal services\nrelated to services supplied in\nthe exercise of governmental\nauthority such as assessment\nof land prices and\ncompensation for\nexpropriation\nE. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators\na. Relating to ships\n(CPC 83103)\nb. Relating to aircraft\n(CPC 83104)\nc. Relating to other transport\nequipment\n(CPC 83101, 83105**)3', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Joint venture in which foreign equity\nparticipation is less than 50% is permitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None for real estate located abroad\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Representatives of joint\nventure companies must be Korean\nnationals.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 18 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['d. Relating to other machinery\nand equipment\n(CPC 83106-83109)\ne. Other\nLeasing or rental services\nconcerning personal or\nhousehold goods\n(CPC 832)\nOther Business Services\na. Advertising services\n(CPC 871)\nb. Market research and public\nopinion polling services\n(CPC 864)\nc. Management consulting\nservices\n(CPC 865)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 19 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['d. Project management and\nother management services\n(CPC 86601, 86609)\ne. Composition and purity\ntesting and analysis\nservices\n(CPC 86761**)4\ne. Technical inspection\nservices\n(CPC 86764)\ne. Testing and analysis\nservices of integrated\nmechanical and electrical\nsystems\n(CPC 86763**, 86769**)5\nf. Consulting services related\nto agriculture and animal\nhusbandry\n(CPC 8811**, 8812**)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Establishment of a commercial presence is\nsubject to the economic needs test.\nMain Criteria: The number of and impact on\nexisting domestic suppliers, protection of\npublic health, safety, and environment.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 20 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['f. Services incidental to\nforestry excluding aerial\nfire fighting\nand disinfection\n(CPC 8814**)\ng. Consulting services\nrelated to fishing\n(CPC 882**)\nh. Services incidental\nto mining\n(CPC 883)\ni. Services incidental to\nmanufacturing :\nOnly consulting services\nrelated to manufacturing\ntechnologies of new\nproducts (CPC 884** and\n885** excluding 88411,\n88450, 88442, and 88493)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 21 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['k. Placement services of\npersonnel\n(CPC 87201**, 87202**)\nExcluding placement\nservices for seafarers\nunder the Seamen Act', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign service suppliers may supply services\nonly in the form of a corporation under the\nCommercial Act.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', ''], ['Notes for transparency purposes:\n1. The corporations shall follow the rules for service fees determined and announced by the Minister of Labour.\n2. The corporations shall be established with a paid-in capital of 50 million won or more. If suppliers wish to install additional branch offices, the total paid-in\ncapital shall increase by 20 million won for each branch office additionally installed.', None, None, None]]
- 22 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['m. Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting\nservices\nGeological, geophysical\nand other scientific\nprospecting services\n(CPC 86751)\nSubsurface surveying\nservices\n(CPC 86752)\nSurface surveying services\n(CPC 86753**)\nExcluding services related\nto cadastral survey\nMap-making services\n(CPC 86754**)\nExcluding services related\nto cadastral maps\nn. Maintenance and repair of\nequipment\n(CPC 633, 8861, 8862,\n8863, 8864, 8865, 8866)\no. Building-cleaning services\n(CPC 874**, excluding\n87409)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 23 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['p. Photographic services\n(CPC 875)\nq. Packaging services\n(CPC 876)\nr. Printing\n(CPC 88442**)6\nr. Publishing\n(CPC 88442**)\nExcluding publishing\nservices of newspapers and\nperiodicals', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n5) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 24 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['s. Convention agency\nservices\n(CPC 87909**)\ns. Stenography services\n(CPC 87909**)\nt. Translation and\ninterpretation services\n(CPC 87905)\nt. Specialty design services\n(CPC 87907)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 25 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES\nB. Courier Services\nInternational courier services\n(CPC 75121**)\nExcluding the services\ncurrently reserved to the\nKorean Postal Authority by\nlaw.7\nThe commitment shall not be\nconstrued to include the right\nto operate transport services\nunder one’s own\nresponsibility for hire.\nThe commitment shall not\ninclude under any\ncircumstances, the grant of air\ntraffic rights for courier\noperators with own Air\nOperator’s Certificate (AOC)\nand aircraft fleet.', '1) Provision of services is limited to air and sea\ntransport modes.\n2) None\n3) Limited to land based operations in support of\ninternational courier services\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) Provision of services is limited to air and sea\ntransport modes.\n2) None\n3) Limited to land based operations in support of\ninternational courier services\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 26 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['C. Telecommunication Services\na. Voice telephone services\nb. Packet-switched data\ntransmission services\nc. Circuit-switched data\ntransmission services\nd. Telex services\ne. Telegraph services\nf. Facsimile services\ng. Private leased circuit\nservices\no. Other\nDigital cellular services\nPaging services\nPCS (personal\ncommunications services)\nTRS (trunked radio\nsystem) services\nMobile data services', '1) The provision of all services is subject to\ncommercial arrangements with licensed Korean\nservice suppliers.\n2) None\n3) Ownership of a licence for the provision of\nfacilities-based services, including radio station\nlicence:\nDirect: May not be granted to or held by\n(a) Foreign government\n(b) Foreign natural person\n(c) Foreign juridical person or\n(d) Korean juridical person of which\nmore than 49 percent of the voting\nshares are owned by foreign\ngovernments, foreign natural persons\nor foreign juridical persons.\nIndirect: Foreign ownership may not be equal to\nor more than 80 percent of the voting\nshares (15 percent, if the largest\nshareholder is a foreign government, a\nforeign natural person or a foreign\njuridical person).', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None', '']]
- 27 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['', 'The largest shareholder of KT may not be\npermitted to be:\n(a) Foreign government\n(b) Foreign natural person\n(c) Foreign juridical person or\n(d) Korean juridical person of which 80\npercent (15 percent, if the largest\nshareholder is a foreign government, a\nforeign natural person or a foreign\njuridical person) or more of the voting\nshares are owned by foreign\ngovernments, foreign natural persons\nor foreign juridical persons.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 28 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['Value-added Services8:\nh. Electronic mail\ni. Voice mail\nj. On-line information and\ndata base retrieval\nk. Electronic data\ninterchange\nl. Enhanced/value-added\nfacsimile services\nincluding store and\nforward, store and retrieve\nm. Code and\nprotocol conversion\nn. On-line information\nand/or data processing\n(including transaction\nprocessing)\no. Other\nOn-line data base and\nremote computing\nservices9', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', 'Value-added service\nproviders are allowed to\nsupply data transmission\nservices10.']]
- 29 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ["D. Audiovisual Services\na. Motion picture and video\ntape production and\ndistribution services\n(CPC 96112**, 96113**)\nExcluding those services\nfor cable TV broadcasting\ne. Record production and\ndistribution services\n(Sound recording)\n3. CONSTRUCTION\nSERVICES\n(CPC 511-518)\n4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES11\nA. Commission Agents'\nServices\n(CPC 621, excluding\n62111, 62112 and\ncommission agents'\nservices of future contracts)", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound* except for CPC 5111\n2) None\n3) A compulsory subcontract system is applied\nfor contractors registered as general\ncontractors.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals and medical\ngoods.\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound* except for CPC 5111\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 30 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['B. Wholes\nale\nTrade\nService\ns\n(CPC 622**, excluding\ngrain in 62211, 62223, red\nginseng and farinaceous\nproducts in 62229 and\nfertilizers in 62276),', '1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals, medical goods,\nfunctional foods, and items subject to\nlimitations under Mode 3.\n2) None\n3) Following services are subject to the\neconomic needs test:\n- wholesale trade of used cars\n- wholesale trade of gaseous fuels and\nrelated products\nMain criteria: Formation of reasonable prices,\nthe number of and impact on existing suppliers\nfor balance of demand and supply, healthy\ndevelopment of the industry, and\nestablishment of orderly trade. In addition,\npopulation density, traffic, environmental\npollution, local conditions, and other local\ncharacteristics as well as public interests.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section', '']]
- 31 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['C. Retailing Services\n(CPC 6111, 61130, 61210,\n613**(excluding retail trade\nand gas station business\nrelated to LPG),\n631**(excluding 63108),\n632\nD. Franchising\n(CPC 8929**)12', '1) Unbound for pharmaceuticals, medical goods,\nfunctional foods, and items subject to\nlimitations under Mode 3.\n2) None\n3) Retailing services for used cars and gaseous\nfuels are subject to the economic needs test.\nMain criteria: The number of and impact on\nexisting domestic suppliers, the population\ndensity, traffic, environmental pollution, local\nconditions, and other local characteristics as\nwell as public interests.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', ''], ['Notes for transparency purposes:\nThe following explanation pertains to Retailing Services.\nSupply of pharmaceuticals directly to the general public (Pharmacies) should be only allowed by certified pharmacists in order to protect public health.', None, None, None]]
- 32 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['5. EDUCATIONAL\nSERVICES13\nC. Higher Education Services14\n(CPC 923**)\nHigher education services\nprovided by private higher\neducational institutions,\nwhich obtained recognition\nfrom the government or\npublic accreditation bodies,\nfor the purpose of\nconferring degrees.\nExcluding education\nservices for medical and\nhealth related subjects and\nfor training pre-school,\nprimary and secondary\nschool teachers.', '1) Unbound\n2) Credits acquired from other higher educational\ninstitutions, local or foreign, are acknowledged\nto the extent that such acknowledged credits\ndo not exceed half of the total credits required\nfor graduation.\n3) - Only those school juridical persons15,\nestablished under the approval by the\nMinister of Education and Human\nResources Development may establish\neducational institutions under the\nMinister’s authorization (Intra-company\nUniversities do not need to establish a\nschool juridical person).\n- Only the types of educational institutions\nlisted in Attachment I are allowed.\n- New educational institutions other\nthan Technology Universities and Intra-\ncompany Universities are not allowed in\nthe Metropolitan area of Seoul or in its\nvicinities.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound', '']]
- 33 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['', '- Operation of joint educational\nprograms with junior colleges, universities\nand industrial universities is limited to\nforeign universities, which obtained\naccreditation by foreign public\naccreditation bodies or which acquired\nrecognition or recommendation by their\ngovernments, in fields that the president\nof the university (junior college)\nrecognizes as necessary.\n- Credits acquired from other higher\neducational institutions, local or foreign,\nare acknowledged to the extent that such\nacknowledged credits do not exceed half\nof the total credits required for graduation.\n- The Minister of Education and Human\nResources Development may restrict the\nnumber of students for each educational\ninstitution.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 34 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['D. Adult Education Services16\n(CPC 924**).\nAdult education services\nprovided by private adult\neducational institutions.\nExcluding education\nservices which confer or\nlead to local or foreign\ndegree or diploma,\nvocational training services\nfinancially supported by the\ngovernment in accordance\nwith the Employment\nInsurance Act and the\nVocational Training\nPromotion Act, and\neducational services via\nbroadcasting.\nAlso excluded are\nvocational training services\nprovided by institutions\nunder authority delegated by\nthe government.', '.\n1) Unbound for health and medical related adult\neducation services\n2) None\n3) Only the types of educational institutions\nlisted in Attachment II are allowed.\n- The Superintendent of a Provincial\nOffice for Education (Kyo-yook-gam)\nmay regulate tuition rates for private\ntutoring institutions (Hag-won).\n- The establishment and/or\nenlargement of educational institutions in\nthe Metropolitan area of Seoul and its\nvicinities may be restricted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) Unbound for health and medical related adult\neducation services\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 35 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Comments'], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL\nSERVICES\nA. Sewage Services\nRefuse water disposal\nservices\n(CPC 9401**)17\nB. Refuse Disposal Services\nIndustrial refuse disposal\nservices\n(CPC 9402**)18\nD. Other\nCleaning services of\nexhaust gases and noise\nabatement services\n(CPC 9404, 9405)\nEnvironment testing and\nassessment services\n(CPC 9406**, 9409**)19', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 36 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\nAll financial services are subject to the following provisions.\n(1) For prudential reasons within the context of paragraph 2(a) of the Annex on Financial Services in GATS, Korea shall not be prevented from taking measures\nincluding requirements related to parent companies, minimum capital requirement, minimum operating funds requirement, business worker’s license and approval\nfor business activities.\n(2) A financial institution must be established for only one type of business defined in related laws such as banking and securities and thus cannot be engaged in other\nbusiness activities regulated by other relevant laws.\n(3) Cross-border supply of financial services and supply through consumer movement may not be settled in Korean currency. After the establishment of commercial\npresence, financial institutions may handle only transactions, denominated and settled in Korean currency, with residents. Approval is required for transactions\ndenominated or settled in foreign currency with non-residents.\n(4) Assets owned by branches must be kept within the territory of Korea. Capital of the head office is not recognized as the basis for determining the extent of\nfunding and lending activities of domestic branches.\n(5) Demand deposit interest rates are regulated.\n(6) Management and operation of assets of a financial institution are restricted.\n(7) A financial institution may not own real estate for non-business purposes.\n(8) Introduction of new financial products including derivatives is subject to approval.\n(9) Mode 1)2)3) Korea undertakes a standstill commitment for limitations on market access and national treatment, where specific commitments are undertaken, in\nfinancial services listed in this schedule as of 31 August 1997.', None, None, None]]
- 37 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. Insurance and Insurance-\nrelated Services\n(i) Direct Insurance\na) Life Insurance Services\nincluding accident and health\ninsurance services', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nlife insurance companies.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with Korean life\ninsurance companies is not allowed.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel, are\nrestricted.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 38 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) Non-life Insurance services', '1) Unbound except for marine export/import cargo\nand aviation insurance.\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to\nforeign non-life insurance companies.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with Korean non-\nlife insurance companies is not allowed.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel, are\nrestricted.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 39 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(ii) Reinsurance and\nretrocession services\n(iii) Insurance broking and\nagency services\na) Brokerage', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nreinsurance and retrocession insurance\ncompanies.\nRecruitment and employment of insurance\nprofessionals, including sales personnel, are\nrestricted.\nEstablishment of joint ventures with Korean\nreinsurance and retrocession services is not\nallowed.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial Presence is permitted only to foreign\ninsurance brokerage companies.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 40 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) Agency\n(iv) Services auxiliary to\ninsurance: applicable only\nto sub-sector a) and b)\na) Claim settlement and\nadjustment services20\nb) Actuarial services', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None except :\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial Presence is permitted only to foreign\nclaim settlement and adjustment companies and\nactuarial companies.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment must\nreside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 41 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Banking and other financial\nServices\n: applicable only to the sub-\nsectors listed below.\n(i) Deposit21\n(ii) Lending22\n(iii) Financial leasing\n(iv) Payment and Money\ntransmission\n(v) Guarantees and\ncommitments\n(vi) Foreign exchange\nservices23\n(vii) Settlement and clearing 24', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nfinancial institutions (except for financial leasing)\nwhich deal with the same services in their\ncountries of origin.\nA person may own up to 10 per cent of the\nstocks of a bank (up to 4 per cent in case of non-\nfinancial service business entity) and 15 per cent\nof the stocks of a provincial bank without special\nauthorization of relevant authorities25.\nA person can own up to 100 per cent of the\nstocks of a bank or a provincial bank with special\nauthorization of relevant authorities.\nForeign exchange position is regulated. The\noversold position of spot foreign exchange is\nUS$ 5 million or 3 per cent of capital (whichever\nis greatest).\nDeposits for specific purposes, such as housing\nsubscription, may be handled only by designated\ninstitutions.\nSecurities savings and credit granting are subject\nto ceilings and operational restrictions.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None', '']]
- 42 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Lending to credit card members through such\nmeans as card loans is subject to limitation.\nFor credit card services, maximum limits are\napplied to fees, interest rates and other charges.\nThe maturity of CDs shall be more than 30 days.\nUnderlying transaction and documentation\nrequirements apply to foreign exchange\ntransactions. Underlying documentation\nrequirements are exempt in the case of forward\ntransactions.\nMandatory lending to small-and-medium sized\ncompanies is required.\nForeign currency loans are subject to ceilings\nand usage restrictions.\nTop executive personnel of financial leasing,\ncredit granting and securities savings companies\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 43 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(viii) Trading for own\naccount or for account of\ncustomers, whether on an\nexchange, in an over-the-\ncounter market or otherwise:\napplicable only to the\ninstruments as listed below.\na) Money market\ninstruments (including\ncheques, bills, certificates\nof deposit)\nb) Foreign exchange\nc) Financial Derivative\nproducts (including\nfutures and options)\nd) Exchange rate and interest\nrate instruments\n(including swaps and\nforward rate agreements)\ne) Transferable securities\nf) Other negotiable\ninstruments and financial\nassets (including bullion)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nfinancial institutions which deal with the same\ninstruments in their countries of origin.\nRepresentative offices may be established by\npre-notification.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 44 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(ix) Participation in issues of all\nkinds of securities\na) Securities issue\nb) Underwriting\nc) Placement\nd) Other services related to\nsecurities', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nfinancial institutions which deal with issuing of\nall kinds of securities.\nRepresentative offices may be established by\npre-notification.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 45 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(x) Asset management :\napplicable only to services\nlisted below.\na) Cash or portfolio\nmanagement\nb) All forms of collective\ninvestment management\nc) Custody\nd) Trust26 (including\ndiscretionary investment\nadvisory service)', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\nasset management companies.\nRepresentative offices may be established by\nPre-notification.\nTo handle a trust business, approval (two types)\nis required from the Ministry of Finance and\nEconomy both for engaging in businesses other\nthan the main banking businesses and for\nengaging in the trust business.\nUnbound for real estate trust business.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 46 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(xi) Credit information services\n(xii) Advisory, intermediation\nand other auxiliary financial\nservices : applicable only to\nservices listed below:\na) Investment\nadvice\nb) Credit rating and analysis', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Unbound except for equity participation of less\nthan 50 percent in existing financial information\ncompanies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Commercial presence is permitted only to foreign\ninvestment advisory companies.\nRepresentative offices may be established by\npre-notification.\nTop executive personnel of each establishment\nmust reside in Korea.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) Credit rating companies should be designated by\nthe relevant authorities to assess the credit rating\nof companies which may wish to issue non-\nguaranteed corporate bonds and commercial\npapers.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', 'Unbound\nUnbound\nNone\nUnbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments Section.', '']]
- 47 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL\nRELATED SERVICES\nA. Hotels and Restaurants\n(CPC 641, 642, 6431**)\nExcluding rail and air transport\nrelated facilities in CPC 643127\nB. Travel Agencies and Tour\nOperators Services\n(CPC 7471)\nC. Tourist Guides Services\n(CPC 7472)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', '']]
- 48 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['10. RECREATIONAL,\nCULTURAL AND\nSPORTING SERVICES\nA. Entertainment Services\n(CPC 96191, 96192)\nEntertainment services\nprovided by individual artists\nor groups such as musical,\ntheatre, live band, opera, etc.\n11. TRANSPORT SERVICES\nA. Maritime Transport\nServices28\nInternational transport\n(CPC 7211**, 7212**)\nExcluding cabotage', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) a) Liner shipping: None\nb) Bulk, tramp, and other international\nshipping: None\n2) None', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None', 'The following services at\nthe port are made publicly\navailable to international\nmaritime transport\nsuppliers on reasonable\nand non-discriminatory\nterms and conditions.']]
- 49 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "3) (a) Establishment of a registered company\nfor the purpose of operating a fleet\nunder the national flag of Korea:\ni) International maritime passenger\ntransport: Unbound\nii) International maritime cargo\ntransport: Only Chusik Hoesa(stock\ncompanies) as stipulated under the\nCommercial Act are permitted.\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) (a) Ship's crew: Unbound\n(b) Shore personnel: Unbound except as\nindicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.", None, '3) (a) None\n(b) None\n4) (a) Unbound\n(b) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', "1. Pilotage\n2. Towing and tug assistance\n3. Provisioning, fuelling\nand watering\n4. Garbage collecting and\nballast waste disposal\n5. Port Captain's services\n6. Navigation aids\n7. Shore-based operational\nservices essential to ship\noperations, including\ncommunications, water\nand electrical supplies\n8. Emergency repair\nfacilities\n9. Anchorage, berth and\nberthing services"], ['Notes for transparency purposes:\nWithout prejudice to the scope of activities which may be considered as cabotage under the relevant national legislation, this schedule does not include maritime cabotage\nservices, which are assumed to cover transportation of passengers or goods between a port or point located within the territory of the Republic of Korea, and traffic\noriginating and terminating in the same port or point located within the territory of the Republic of Korea, provided that this traffic remains within the Republic of Korea’s\nterritorial waters.', None, None, None, None], ['Maritime Auxiliary Services\nMaritime cargo handling\nservices\n(CPC 741**)\nStorage and warehouse\nservices in ports\n(CPC 742**)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
- 50 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Customs Clearance service\nMaritime agency services\n(CPC 748**)29\nContainer station services\n(CPC 741**)30\nMaritime freight forwarding\nservices\n(CPC 748**)31\nShipping brokerage services\n(CPC 748**, 749**)32', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) All the companies as stipulated under the\nCommercial Act are permitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
- 51 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Maintenance and repair of\nvessels33\nRental of vessels with crew\nCPC 7213)\nPushing and towing services\n(CPC 7214)\nTally, measuring and survey\nservices\n(CPC 749**)34', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Only Chusik Hoesa(stock companies) as\nstipulated under the Commercial Act are\npermitted.\n4) Unbound except as indicated the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
- 52 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Air Transport Services\nComputer reservation\nsystem (CRS) services35\nSelling and marketing of\nair transport services36\nMaintenance and repair of\naircraft\nE. Rail Transport Services\na. Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7111)\nb. Freight transportation\n(CPC 7112)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Unbound for existing operations.\nEstablishment of new operations are\nsubject to the economic needs test.\nMain criteria: Establishment of order and\ndiscipline in the railroad industry.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
- 53 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['F. Road Transport Services\nTransportation of\ncontainerized freight\nexcluding cabotage (CPC\n71233**)\nF. Pipeline Transport\n(CPC 7131**)\nOnly the transportation of oil\nproducts, excluding the\ntransportation of LPG\nH. Services Auxiliary to all\nModes of Transport\nb. Storage and warehouse\nservices other than those in\nports\n(CPC 742**)\nExcluding services for\nagricultural, fishery and\nlivestock products.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Licenses are granted only to international\nshipping companies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Cargoes are confined to containerized cargoes to\nbe exported or imported.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
- 54 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. Other Transport Services\nCOMBINED TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\nFreight forwarding for rail\ntransport37', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nHorizontal Commitments section.', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the Horizontal\nCommitments section.', None, '']]
ATTACHMENT I  (Higher Education Services)   Only the following types of educational institutions are included: (Excluding Universities via Broadcasting and Communications; Cyber Universities; and etc.)  a) Junior Colleges (Excluding Polytechnic Colleges): higher education institutions which train technical experts for a 2-3 year curriculum and confer an associate degree, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.  b) Universities: higher education institutions which conduct research and educate professionals for 4-6 years and confer a bachelor’s degree, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.  c) Industry Universities: higher education institutions which educate those who want to continue theoretical or technical research and training for 4 years, conferring a bachelor’s degree, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.   d) Technology Universities: higher education institutions, located within workplaces, which educate workers to provide expert knowledge and skills and confer associate degrees and bachelor’s degrees, in accordance with the Higher Education Law.  e) Intra-company Universities: higher education institutions which are established and operated by employers, and educate employees, in order to confer equivalent degrees or diplomas to those in Junior Colleges or Universities, in accordance with the Life-long Education  ________________
ATTACHMENT II  (Adult Education Services)   1.  The following types of private tutoring institutions (Hag-won) and life-long education facilities are included:  a) Hag-won are private education institutions to provide tutoring services on the following subjects to more than 10 persons for periods longer than 30 days in accordance with the Act on the Establishment and Operation of Private Tutoring institutions. Excluded are schools, libraries, museums, workplace facilities to provide education services to the employees, life-long education facilities in accordance with the Life-long Education Law, and driving schools.  1) Infrastructure industrial technology: machinery, automobile, metal, chemical and ceramic, electrics,  telecommunications, electronics, shipbuilding, aviation, civil engineering, textile and apparel, mining resources, land  development, agriculture and forestry, oceanic, energy, art craft, transportation, safety management 2) Applied industrial technology: design, hair and cosmetic management, food and beverage, packaging, printing,  photograph, musical tuning 3) Information processing: telecommunications equipment, software, multimedia, computer communication, internet,  computer 4) Nursing assistant: nursing assistant 5) Culture and tourism: publishing, imaging and record, movie, broadcasting, advertising, character products, tourism 6) Foreign languages: foreign languages, translation, interpretation 7) Humanities: public management, business management, accounting, statistics, public service examination 8) Management: finance, insurance, distribution, real estate 9) Office work: bookkeeping, fast writing, reading and calculation, word-processing, secretary, abacus, calligraphy 10) Arts: traditional Korean music, dance and calligraphy, music, painting, dance, speech, modelling, cartoon, baduk,  theatre, flower arrangement  b) Life-long education facilities are those facilities which have been approved, registered or notified in accordance with the Life-long Education Law. Among the Life-long education facilities, only life-long educational facilities annexed to workplaces, NGOs, schools, mass-media, and those related to the development of knowledge and human resources are included.  ________________
ATTACHMENT III  (Maritime Transport Services)     1. International Shipping:  "Other forms of commercial presence for the supply of international maritime transport services" means the ability for international maritime transport service suppliers of other Members to establish branches and to undertake activities concerned for the supply to their customers of maritime transport services.  2. Maritime Cargo Handling Services:  Activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not including the direct activities of dockers, when this workforce is organized independently of the stevedoring or terminal companies.  The activities covered include the organization and supervision of:  - the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a ship; - the lashing/unlashing of cargo; - the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge.  3. Customs Clearance Services:  Activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service supplier or a usual complement of its main activity.  4. Container Station and Depot Services:  Activities consisting in storing containers in port areas with a view to their stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for shipments.  5. Maritime Agency Services:  Activities consisting in representing, within a given geographical area, as an agent, the business interests of one or more shipping lines or shipping companies, for the following purposes:  
 - 2 -  - Marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies; acquisition and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information;  - Acting on behalf of the companies organizing the call of the ship or taking over cargoes when required.  6. Maritime Freight Forwarding Services:  Activities consisting of organizing and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of maritime transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information.  7. Tally, Measuring and Survey Services:  - Tally services : Activities consisting of calculating the number of cargoes or verifying the delivery and the receipt when loading and unloading. - Measuring services : Activities consisting of calculating or verifying the volume or weight of cargoes when loading and unloading. - Survey services : Activities consisting of the verification, inspection and survey related with shipped cargoes and vessels (including barges).   ________________
APPENDIX 2 TO ANNEX VII  ICELAND - SCHEDULE OF COMMITMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3.16 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', '3) All foreign currency transfers must be\nreported to the Central Bank of Iceland for\nstatistical purposes\nService providers shall inform the Ministry of\nCommerce of investments made by non-residents\nin business enterprises in Iceland and the Central\nBank of Iceland of investments made by non-\nresidents in securities in Iceland.', '3) Treatment accorded to subsidiaries of third-\ncountry companies formed in accordance with the\nlaw of an EEA Member State or an EFTA Member\nState and having their registered office, central\nadministration or principal place of business within\nan EEA Member State or an EFTA Member State\nmay be extended to branches or agencies established\nin an EEA Member State or an EFTA Member State\nby a third-country company if they show that they\npossess an effective and continuous link with the\neconomy of one of the EEA Member States or an\nEFTA Member State', '']]
- 4 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Non-residents cannot conclude an agreement on\nreal-estate lease without the permission of the\nMinistry of Justice if the lease is for a period\nexceeding three years and not for use in conducting\nits normal business activities', 'At least one of the auditors of an Icelandic limited\nliability company must be a resident in Iceland or a\ncompetent resident CPA company', ''], ['All sectors: Movement of\npersonnel', 'Temporary entry of service providers', 'Non-residents may only acquire real estate in\nconjunction to their business activities and can only\nobtain ordinary proprietary rights linked to the real\nestate. Non-residents are thus excluded from\nobtaining full property rights of real estate if unusual\nrights are linked to it, such as exploitation rights as\nregards waterfalls, geothermal energy, etc\nContracts concerning ownership and long-\nterm use of real-estate by non-residents are not valid\nuntil the Ministry of Justice has endorsed it in\nwriting\nTemporary entry of service providers', '']]
- 5 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "Managers: persons who direct the Organization\ncovered by the agreement or its department and are\nin a senior level responsible of the service\nproviding functions of the organization by\nsupervising and controlling and having also\nauthority to hire and fire personnel or recommend\nsuch and other personnel actions.\nSpecialists: persons within the organization who\npossess knowledge at an advanced level of\nexpertise or otherwise essential or proprietal to the\norganization's service, research equipment,\ntechniques or management.", '', ''], ['All sectors: Subsidies (The issue\nof a definition of subsidies\nremains to be determined in the\ncontext of negotiations under\nArticle XV of the GATS).', 'Service sellers: persons who as representatives of\na service provider covered by the agreement are\nseeking temporary entry for purposes of\nnegotiation for the sale of services or entering into\nagreements to sell services for that service\nprovider, where this selling activity is not directed\nto the general public.\n3) None\n4) None', '3) Eligibility for subsidies may be limited\nto juridical persons established within the\nterritory of Iceland. Subsidies related to\nresearch and development are\nunbound.\n4) Subsidies available only to natural persons\nmay be limited to Icelandic citizens.', '']]
- 6 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS\nSERVICES\nA. Professional\nServices\nLegal Services\n(Applicable parts of\nCPC 861)\n- Legal advice\nactivities on home\ncountry law\n- Legal advice on\ninternational law and\nforeign legal consultancy', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Members of the General Bar Association\nof Iceland have an exclusive right to\nrepresent clients before courts in Iceland.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '2) None\n1),3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section. Icelandic law\nexam or an equivalent thereto\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 7 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Taxation services\n(CPC 863)\n(d) Architectural\nservices (CPC\n8671)\n(e) Engineering\nservices (CPC\n8672)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 8 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(i) Veterinary services\n(CPC 932)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section. Number of\nveterinarians in rural districts is\nlimited.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Ability in the Icelandic language\nrequired.\n4) Ability in the Icelandic language\nrequired.', '']]
- 9 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Computer and\nRelated Services\n(a) Consultancy\nservices related to\nthe installation of\ncomputer hardware\n(CPC 841)\n(b) Software\ndevelopment\n(including software\nimplementation) CPC\n842)\n(c) Data processing\nservices (CPC 843)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) Concession needed if personal-data\nis to be processed outside Icelandic\njurisdiction\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 10 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(e) Other\n- Maintenance and\nrepair services of office\nmachinery and\nequipment including\ncomputers (CPC 845)\n- Other computer\nservices (CPC 849)\nC. Research and\ndevelopment\nServices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Concession needed if personal-data\nis to be processed outside Icelandic\njurisdiction\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 11 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Interdisciplinary R&D\nservices (CPC 853)\nD. Real Estate\nServices\n(a) Real estate services\ninvolving own or\nleased property\n(CPC 821)\n(b) On a Fee or\nContract basis (CPC\n822)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Deposits or liability insurance to cover\nloss caused to clients. All licenses to provide\nservices on sales of real estate are personal\nauthorizations.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Deposits or liability insurance to cover\nloss caused to clients. All licences to\nprovide services on sales of real-estate are\npersonal authorization.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3),4) Condition of one year previous\nresidency in order to obtain licence to\nprovide services in residential building and\nland sales, and other related intermediary\nservices for purchase and sale of real-estate\n1) None\n2) None\n3),4) Condition of one year previous\nresidency in order to obtain licence to\nprovide services in residential building and\nland sales, and other related intermediary\nservices for purchase and sale of real-estate', '']]
- 12 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(a) Relating to ships\n(CPC 83103)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) To be registered in the ship register\nthe ship must be owned by\nIcelandic natural or juridical\npersons who are resident in\nIceland. Further nationality\nrestrictions on fishing vessels.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 13 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(e) Other (CPC 832)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['F. Other Business\nServices\n(a) Advertising\nservices (CPC 871)\n(b) Market research and\npublic opinion polling\nservices (CPC 864)\n(c) Management\nconsulting services\n(CPC 865)\n(d) Services related to\nman. consulting (CPC\n866)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) Concession needed if personal data is to be\nprocessed outside Icelandic jurisdiction\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 14 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(e) Technical testing and\nanalysis services (CPC\n8676)\n(f) Services incidental\nto agriculture,\nhunting and\nforestry (CPC 881)\n(i) Services incidental\nto manufacturing (CPC\n884 + 885 /except for\n88442)\n(k) Placement and\nsupply services of\npersonnel (CPC 872)\n(m) Related scientific\nand technical\nconsulting services\n(CPC 8675)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 15 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(o) Building-cleaning\nservices (CPC 874)\n(p) Photographic\nservices (CPC 875)\n(q) Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['(r) Printing and\npublishing (CPC\n88442)\n(s) Convention\nservices (CPC\n87909)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Residency requirement for publishing of\nnewspapers or magazines within the\nnational territory. Residency requirement\nfor editors\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 16 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
- 17 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3. CONSTRUCTION\nAND RELATED\nENGINEERING\nSERVICES\nA. General Construction\nWork for Buildings (CPC\n512)\nB. General Construction\nWork for Civil\nEngineering (CPC\n513)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 18 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ["A. Commissions\nAgents' Services (CPC\n621)", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['B. Wholesale Trade\nServices (CPC 622)\nC. Retailing Services\n(CPC 631+632 6111\n+ 6113 + 6121)\nD. Franchising (CPC\n8929)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 19 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL\nSERVICES\nA. Sewage Services\n(CPC 9401)\nB. Refuse Disposal\nWaste (CPC 9402)\nC. Sanitation and\nSimilar\nServices (CPC\n9403)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Environmental operation license\nrequired\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3 Environmental operating license\nrequired\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['D. Other (CPC 9409)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) Environmental operating license\nrequired\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 20 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\n(i) Iceland undertakes commitments on financial services in accordance with the "Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services" (the Understanding).\n(ii) Market access commitments with respect to modes 1) and 2) and bound in this Schedule to the extent of the obligations in B.3 and B.4 of the Understanding.', None, None, None], ['A. Insurance and Insurance\nrelated Services', '1) The supply of direct insurance is reserved\nfor Icelandic insurance undertakings or\nauthorized insurance undertakings from\nanother EEA and EFTA Member State.\nThe supply of insurance broker services is\nreserved for insurance brokers authorized\nby the Ministry of Commerce or\ninsurance brokers authorized by\ncompetent authorities of another EEA\nMember State or an EFTA Member\nSTate.', '1) None', ''], ['', '2) None\n3) Insurance undertakings not established in\nan EEA Member State or an EFTA\nMember State require authorization to\nestablish branch offices in Iceland.', '2) None\n3) The majority of the founders of an\ninsurance undertaking must be Icelandic\nresidents or legal entities registered in\nIceland, citizens of another EEA or EFTA\nMember State residing in an EEA or EFTA\nMember State or legal entities registered in\nan EEA or EFTA Member State.\nManagers and board members of insurance\nundertakings shall be resident in Iceland.\nCitizens of other EEA and EFTA Member\nStates are exempted from the residency\nrequirement. The Minister of Commerce\nmay grant exemptions from this\nrequirement.', '']]
- 21 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Banking and Other\nFinancial Services\n(excluding\ninsurance)', 'Any investor, whether resident or non-\nresident, who acquires or intends to\nacquire a qualifying holding in an\ninsurance undertaking must give advance\nnotice to the Financial Supervisory\nAuthority. The Authority may refuse the\nacquisition or the exercise of ownership if\nit believes that the acquisition will affect\nthe sound functioning of the enterprise.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Credit institutions and undertakings\nengaged in securities services established in a\nnon-EEA\nMember State or an EFTA Member State\ncan establish a branch or a representative\noffice, subject to authorization by the\nFinancial Supervisory Authority, FME.', "Branch offices of non-EEA insurance\nundertakings must be managed by a\nresident agent.\nInsurance brokers must be resident in\nIceland or citizens or legal entities of\nanother EEA Member State or an EFTA\nMember State residing in an EEA Member\nState or an EFTA Member State. The\nMinister of Commerce may grant\nexemptions from this requirement.\n4) None\n1) Domestic financial institutions shall\ninform the Central Bank of Iceland of the\nbalances of service providers' accounts held by\nnon- residents.\n2) None\n3) A founder of a credit institution shall be\na natural or legal person resident in Iceland. The\nMinister of Commerce can grant exemptions\nfrom this requirement. Citizens and\nlegal persons of other EEA and EFTA\nMember States are exempted from the\nresidency requirement", '']]
- 22 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Credit institutions and undertakings\nengaged in securities services can only be\nestablished as companies with limited\nliability.\nCommercial banks and savings banks\nhave exclusive rights to accept deposits\nand other repayable funds from the\npublic.\nPublic issue of securities shall be\nconducted by securities undertakings or\nother parties authorized to provide such\nservices.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.', 'Managers and the majority of the board\nmembers of credit institutions and\nundertakings engaged in securities services\nand UCITS shall be resident in Iceland.\nCitizens of other EEA and EFTA Member\nStates are exempted from the residency\nrequirement. The Minister of Commerce\nmay grant citizens of non-EEA Member\nStates or non-EFTA Member States the\nsame exemptions.\nService providers shall inform the Ministry\nof Commerce of investments made by non-\nresidents in business enterprises in Iceland\nand the Central Bank of Iceland of\ninvestments made by non-residents in\nsecurities in Iceland.\n4) None', '']]
- 23 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL\nRELATED SERVICES\nA. Hotels and Restaurants\n(including catering) (CPC 641-\n643)\nB. Travel Agencies and\nTour Operators (CPC 7471)\nC. Tourist Guides\nServices (CPC\n7472)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Deposits or liability insurance to cover\nloss caused to clients due to bankruptcy\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Condition of licenses is one year\nprevious residency\n4) Condition of licenses is one year\nprevious residency\n1) None\n2) None\n3),4) Condition of licenses is one year\nprevious residency of the manager\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) The right to exercise the profession is\nreserved for resident tourist guides. Non-\nresident tourist guides may be granted\ntemporary work permit on ad hoc basis.', '']]
- 24 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. Entertainment\nServices (including\ntheatre, live bands\nand circus services)\n(CPC 9619)\nB. News Agency\nServices (CPC 962)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1),2),3) None other than access to management\nfunctions is subject to discretionary\nauthorizations by competent authorities\n4) Condition of residency for the editor of a\npaper or magazine. Unbound except as\nindicated in the horizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Targeted financial support to specific\nlocal, regional or national activities.\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['C. Libraries,\nArchives,\nMuseums and other\nCultural Service (CPC\n963)\nD. Sporting and other\nRecreational\nServices (CPC 964)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Gambling, coin machines and like\nactivities are subject to licensing.\nProfessional boxing is illegal but amateur\nboxing is allowed.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Targeted financial support to specific\nlocal, regional or national activities\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Targeted financial support to specific\nlocal, regional or national activities\n4) None', '']]
- 25 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['11. TRANSPORT\nSERVICES\nA. Maritime Transport\nServices\nInternational\ntransport (freight and\npassengers) CPC 7211 and\n7212 including\nCabotage transport\n1).', "1) None\n2) None\n3)(a) Establishment of a registered\ncompany for the purpose of\noperating a fleet under Icelandic flag:\nUnbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section.\n(b) Other forms of commercial\npresence 2): None.\n4)(a) Ships' crew: Unbound except as\nindicated in the horizontal section.\n(b) Key personnel employed in\nrelation to a commercial presence as\ndefined under mode 3(b) above: Unbound\nexcept as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.", '1) None\n2) None\n3)(a) Unbound\n(b) None\n4)(a) Unbound\n(b) Unbound', '']]
- 26 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Maritime Auxiliary\nServices\n- Maritime Cargo\nHandling Services\n3)\n- Storage and\nWarehousing\nServices (CPC 742);\nCustoms Clearance\nServices 4);\nContainer Station and\nDepot 5)\n- Maritime Agency\nServices 6);\nFreight Forwarding\nServices 7)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n*\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['- Other Supporting and\nAuxiliary Transport\nServices\n8)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 27 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Auxiliary Services as required by\nMaritime Transport Operators:', '', '', 'The following services are\nmade available to\ninternational maritime\ntransport suppliers on\nreasonable and\nnon-discriminatory terms\nand conditions:\n1. Pilotage\n2. Towing and tug\nassistance\n3. Provisioning, fuelling,\nwatering\n4. Garbage collecting,\nballast waste disposal\n5. Port Captain’s services\n6. Navigation aids\n7. Shore-based operational\nservices essential to ship\noperations, incl.\ncommunications, water,\nelectrical supplies\n8. Emergency repair\nfacilities\n9. Anchorage, berth,\nberthing services\n10. Container handling,\nstorage and warehousing,\nfreight transport.']]
- 28 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'Where road, coastal\nshipping and related\nauxiliary services are not\notherwise fully covered in\nthis schedule, a multimodal\ntransport operator shall\nhave the ability to rent, hire\nor charter trucks and related\nequipment for the purpose\nof inland forwarding of\ninternational cargoes\ncarried by sea, or have\naccess to and use of such\nmultimodal activities for\nthe purpose of providing\nmultimodal transport\nservices.']]
- 29 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Air Transport\nServices\nMaintenance and\nrepair of aircraft and\nparts thereof\nSales and\nmarketing', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 30 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(a) Passenger\ntransportation (CPC\n7121 + 7122)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Authorization required for\ncommercial land transport services.\nNumerical quotas may be imposed as well as\nexclusive licenses for certain areas or\nroutes.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', ''], ['(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7123)\n(c) Rental of\ncommercial\nvehicles with\noperator (CPC\n7124)\n(d) Maintenance and\nrepair of road\ntransport\nequipment (CPC\n6112+8867)\n(e) Supporting\nservices for road\ntransport services\n(CPC 744)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
- 31 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['H. Services auxiliary\nto all modes of\ntransport\n(b) Storage and\nwarehousing\nservices (CPC 742)\n(c) Freight transport\nagency services (CPC\n748)\nd) Other (CPC 749)', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section', '1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) None', '']]
 APPENDIX 3 TO ANNEX VII 
[['Sector or Sub-sector', None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments', None], ['- The level of commitments in a particular sector shall not be construed to supersede the level of commitments taken with respect to any other services sector to which such service is\nan input or to which it is otherwise related.\n- CPC numbers indicated in square brackets are references to the UN Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers Series M No. 77, Provisional Central Product\nClassification, Department of International Economics and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991).', None, None, None, None, None], ['PART I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS1', None, None, None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS INCLUDED\nIN THIS SCHEDULE', None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'This part sets out those commitments that apply to trade in services in all scheduled services sectors unless otherwise specified. Those commitments that apply to trade in specific', None, None, None, ''], [None, 'services sectors are listed in Part II.', None, None, None, None], ['', None, '1) None', '1) None except unbound for subsidies, tax\nincentives and tax credits\nTreatment accorded to subsidiaries of third\ncountry companies formed in accordance with\nthe law of an EEA Member State and having\nregistered office, central administration or\nprincipal place of business within an EEA\nMember State is not extended to branches or\nagencies established in an EEA Member State\nby a third-country company.', '', None]]
- 2 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '2) None\n3) The establishment of a commercial presence by\na juridical person (including branches) is\nsubject to the requirement that no objection for\nreasons of national economy (balanced\nproportion of national and foreign capital;\nbalanced ratio of foreigners in comparison with\nthe number of resident population; balanced\nratio of total number of jobs in the economy in\ncomparison with the number of the resident\npopulation; balanced geographic situation;\nbalanced development of the national\neconomy, between and within the sectors)\nexists.', 'Treatment less favourable may be accorded to\nsubsidiaries of third countries having only their\nregistered office in the territory of an EEA\nMember State unless they show that they\npossess an effective and continuous link with\nthe economy of one of the EEA Member\nStates.\n2) None except unbound for subsidies, tax\nincentives and tax credits\n3) None except for the following:\nThe establishment of a commercial presence by\nan individual is subject to the requirement of\nprior residence during a certain period of time\nand of permanent domicile in Liechtenstein.\nThe establishment of a commercial presence by\na juridical person (including branches) is\nsubject to the following requirements: At least\none of the managers has to fulfil the\nrequirements of prior residence during a certain\nperiod of time and of permanent domicile in\nLiechtenstein. The majority of the\nadministrators (authorized to manage and\nrepresent the juridical person) must be resident\nin Liechtenstein and have either to be\nLiechtenstein citizens or have prior residence\nduring a certain period of time in Liechtenstein.\nThe general and the limited partnership have to\nfulfil the same conditions as corporations with\nlimited liability (juridical person). In addition\nthe majority of the associates have to be\nLiechtenstein citizens or to have prior residence\nduring a certain period of time in Liechtenstein.', '']]
- 3 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'The Liechtenstein company law does not\nprohibit joint stock companies from foreseeing\nin their articles of incorporation the preclusion\nor limitation of the transfer of registered shares\nTreatment accorded to subsidiaries of third-\ncountry companies formed in accordance with\nthe law of an EEA Member State and having\nregistered office, central administration or\nprincipal place of business within an EEA\nMember State is not extended to branches or\nagencies established in an EEA Member State\nby a third-country company.\nTreatment less favourable may be accorded to\nsubsidiaries of third countries having only their\nregistered office in the territory of an EEA\nMember State unless they show that they\npossess an effective and continuous link with\nthe economy of one of the EEA Member States.\nAll acquisitions of real estate are subject to\nauthorization. Such authorization is granted\nonly if an actual and proven requirement for\nliving or business purposes is given and a\ncertain period of residence has been completed.\nNon-residents are excluded from the acquisition\nof real estate.', '']]
- 4 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4) Unbound except for measures concerning the\nentry and temporary stay of natural persons\n(hereafter persons) falling within the\ncategories, as defined in paragraph I below, and\nsubject to the following limitations and\nconditions and to the limitations and conditions\non national treatment set out under the national\ntreatment column: Entry and stay of foreign\nservices suppliers in Liechtenstein is subject to\nauthorization (requirement of residency permit\nand work permit). Authorization is granted\nsubject to measures fixing overall numbers of\nwork permits allocated. For essential personnel\nas defined in paragraph I below, the period of\nstay is limited to a period of three years.\nPersons staying in or entering Liechtenstein\nwith an open-ended or extendable residence\npermit based on an employment contract not\nlimited in time for Liechtenstein are not\nconsidered as persons residing in or entering\nLiechtenstein for the purpose of temporary stay\nor temporary employment in Liechtenstein.', '4) Unbound except for measures concerning the\ncategories of natural persons referred to in the\nmarket access column and subject to the\nfollowing limitations and conditions: working\nconditions prevailing in the branch and the\nplace of activity provided by law and/or\ncollective agreement (with respect to\nremuneration, working hours, etc.), measures\nlimiting professional mobility, regulations\nrelated to statutory systems of social security\nand public retirement plans (with respect to\nqualifying period, residency requirement, etc.)\nand all other provisions of the legislation\nrelating to immigration, entry, stay and work.\nThe enterprise employing such persons shall\ncooperate, upon request, with the authorities in\ncharge of the enforcement of these measures.', '']]
- 5 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'I. Essential persons transferred to\nLiechtenstein within a specific business or\ncompany (intra-corporate transferees)\nAre considered as essential those\npersons - defined in detail below - who are\nemployees of a business or company of a Party\nhereafter enterprise) providing services in\nLiechtenstein through a branch or subsidiary\nestablished in Liechtenstein and who have been\nbeforehand employees of their enterprise\noutside Liechtenstein for a period of not less\nthan one year immediately preceding their\napplication for admission:\na) Executives and senior managers:\npersons who primarily direct the enterprise\nor one of its departments and who receive\nonly general supervision or direction from\nhigh-level executives, the board of\ndirectors or the stockholders of the\nenterprise.\nExecutives and senior managers would not\ndirectly perform tasks related to the actual\nsupply of services of the enterprise.\nb) Specialists: highly qualified persons who,\nwithin an enterprise, are essential for the\nsupply of a specific service by reason of\ntheir knowledge at an advanced level of\nexpertise in the field of services, research\nequipment, techniques or management of\nthe enterprise.', '', '']]
- 6 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['PART II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services\na) Legal Service\n- legal advisory services on\nhome country law and\ninternational law (except\nfor consulting on\nLiechtenstein law)\n(part of CPC 861)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 7 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Bookkeeping services,\nexcept tax returns\n(CPC 8622)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 8 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)\nf) Integrated engineering\nservices\n(CPC 8673)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Liechtenstein nationality necessary for survey\nactivities for official public purposes2 (however,\nforeign surveyors can work under the\nresponsibility of a licensed Liechtenstein\nsurveyor).\n2) None\n3) Liechtenstein nationality necessary for survey\nactivities for official public purposes (however,\nforeign surveyors can work under the\nresponsibility of a licensed Liechtenstein\nsurveyor).\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\nLiechtenstein nationality necessary for survey\nactivities for official public purposes (however,\nforeign surveyors can work under the\nresponsibility of a licensed Liechtenstein\nsurveyor).\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 9 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['g) Urban planning and\nlandscape architectural\nservices\n(CPC 8674)\nB. Computer and Related\nServices\n(CPC 841 - CPC 845, CPC\n8491)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ['C. Research and\nDevelopment Services\nExcluding projects\nfinanced in whole or in\npart by public funds\na) R&D services on natural\nsciences\n(part of CPC 851)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None]]
- 10 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) R&D services on social\nsciences\n(part of CPC 852)\nc) Interdisciplinary R&D\nsciences\n(part of CPC 853)\nE. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators\nc) Relating to other transport\nequipment\n(CPC 83101 + CPC 83102\n+ CPC 83105)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ['d) Relating to other\nmachinery and equipment\n(CPC 83106 - CPC 83109)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 11 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['F. Other Business Services\na) Advertising services\n- Advertising services\n(including direct mail\nadvertising), excluding\noutdoor advertising and\nexcluding advertising for\ngoods subject to import\nauthorization and\nexcluding pharmaceutical\nproducts, alcohol, tobacco,\ntoxics, explosives,\nweapons and ammunition\n(part of CPC 8711 + part\nof CPC 8712)\nb) Market research and public\nopinion polling services\n(CPC 864)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ['c) Management consulting\nservices\n(CPC 865)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 12 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['d) Services related to\nmanagement consulting\n(CPC 866)\ne) Technical testing and\nanalysis services\n(CPC 8676)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 13 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['g) Services incidental to\nfishing\n- Consulting services\nrelating to fishing\n(part of CPC 882)\nh) Services incidental to\nmining\n- Services incidental to\nmining, excluding\nprospection, surveying,\nexploration and\nexploitation (part of CPC\n883 + part of CPC 5115)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 14 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['m) Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting\nservices\n- Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting,\nexcluding prospection,\nsurveying, exploration and\nexploitation\n(part of CPC 8675)\nn) Maintenance and repair of\nequipment (not including\nmaritime vessels, aircraft\nor other transport\nequipment)\n(CPC 633 +\nCPC 8861-CPC 8866)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein required\nfor subsector CPC 633', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein required\nfor subsector CPC 633', '']]
- 15 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['p) Photographic services\n(CPC 875)\nq) Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein\nrequired for subsector CPC 633.', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein required\nfor subsector CPC 633.', ''], ['r) Printing, publishing\n(CPC 88442)\n2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES\nC. Telecommunication\nServices', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ['Telecommunication Services are the transport of electro-magnetic signals - sound, data, image and combinations thereof, - excluding broadcasting3', None, None, None]]
- 16 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
- 17 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission (part of CPC\n7523)\n(d) Telex services\n(CPC 7523)\n(e) Telegraph services\n(CPC 7522)\n(f) Facsimile services\n(CPC 7521 + 7529)\n(g) Private leased circuit\nservices (CPC 7522 +\n7523)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 18 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Enhanced/value-added\ntelecommunication\nservices\n(h) Electronic mail\n(part of CPC 7523)\n(i) Voice mail\n(part of CPC 7523)\n(j) On-line information and\ndata base retrieval\n(part of CPC 7523)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 19 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(k) Electronic data interchange\n(EDI)\n(part of CPC 7523)\n(l) Enhanced/value-added\nfacsimile services\n(part of CPC 7523)\n(m) Code and protocol\nconversion\n(n) On-line information and/or\ndata processing\n(part of CPC 843)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 20 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ["(o) Other\n- Videotext\n- Enhanced/value-added\nservices based on licensed\nwireless networks\nincluding enhanced/value-\nadded paging services,\nexcept for voice\ntransmission\n4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES\nA. Commission agents'\nservices\n- Commission agents'\nservices, excluding\nservices related to goods\nsubject to import\nauthorization, to\npharmaceutical products,\ntoxics, explosives,\nweapons and ammunition,\nand precious metals\n(part of CPC 6211)", '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 21 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
- 22 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Franchising\n(CPC 8929)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 23 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Higher Education Services\n(part of CPC 923)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreigners may establish commercial\npresence only when organized as juridical\npersons according to Liechtenstein law\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 24 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Refuse disposal services\n(CPC 9402)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None; unbound for garbage dump\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein\nrequired', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein required', ''], ['C. Sanitation and similar\nservices\n(CPC 9403)\nD. Other environmental\nservices\n(CPC 9404 + CPC 9405 +\nCPC 9406 + part of CPC\n9409)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein\nrequired\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein required\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ["7. FINANCIAL SERVICES\nCommitments on banking, securities and insurance services are in accordance with the 'Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services'\n(hereafter 'Understanding') and subject to limitations and conditions as contained in Part I (horizontal commitments) and as listed below. The Commitments below shall not impose any\nobligation to allow non-resident financial services suppliers to solicit business.", None, None, None]]
- 25 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '2) None', '2) None', ''], ['Banking and other\nfinancial services\n(excluding insurance)', '3) Insurance companies incorporated in\nLiechtenstein must be organized as public\nlimited company (Aktiengesellschaft) or as\nco-operative/mutual association\n(Genossenschaft).\nIf a third-country insurer wishes to become\nactive within Liechtenstein, an agency or\nbranch office must be established in\nLiechtenstein. The third-country insurer must\nbe authorized to conduct insurance activities\nunder the law of its country of incorporation.\nTo be recognized for participation in the basic\nhealth insurance scheme, health insurance\nsuppliers must be organized in the form of\nmutual associations (Genossenschaft, Verein:\nVersicherungsverein auf Gegenseitigkeit or\nHilfskasse) or foundations (Stiftung);\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n15) According to the practice in Liechtenstein,\nmutual funds (collective investments) have to\nbe marketed through banks having a\ncommercial presence in Liechtenstein\n2) None', '3) One member of the board of directors and\nthe administrators must be resident in\nLiechtenstein. They must be duly authorized to\nfully represent their company. In the case of a\nbranch or an agency, it suffices if the general\nrepresentative, whose nomination requires the\napproval of the supervisory authority, has his\nresidence in Liechtenstein and is duly\nauthorized to fully represent his company.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Subvention for house building is only granted\nto Liechtenstein citizen, which have to take out\nthe loan for the house building at a domestic\nbank\n2) Subvention for house building is only granted\nto Liechtenstein citizen, which have to take out\nthe loan for the house building at a domestic\nbank', '']]
- 26 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
- 27 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
- 28 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Sporting and other\nrecreational services\n- Sporting services\n(CPC 9641)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 29 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['c) Rental of commercial\nvehicles with operator\n(CPC 7124)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], ['d) Maintenance and repair of\nroad transport equipment\n(CPC 6112 + CPC 8867)\nH. Services auxiliary to all\nmodes of transport\na) Cargo-handling services\n(CPC 741)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
- 30 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['b) Storage and warehouse\nservices\n(CPC 742)\nc) Freight transport agency\nservices\n(CPC 748)\nd) Other auxiliary transport\nservices, excluding local\npick up and delivery (part\nof CPC 749)', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '']]
 APPENDIX 4 TO ANNEX VII  NORWAY - SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3.16
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['I. HORIZONTAL\nCOMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE\nAll sectors: Establishment -\nGeneral authorization\nprocedures for acquisition\nAll sectors: Treatment of\nbranches and agencies', '3) None', '3),4) A foreign citizen that purchases or leases real\nproperty as a secondary residence must apply\nfor a concession if the citizen neither lives in\nNorway, nor has been living in Norway for at\nleast five years.\n3) Treatment accorded to subsidiaries of third\ncountry companies formed in accordance\nwith the law of an EEA Member State and\nhaving their registered office, central\nadministration or principal place of\nbusiness within an EEA Member State\nmay not be extended to branches or\nagencies established in an EEA Member\nState by a third-country company.\nTreatment less favorable may be accorded\nto subsidiaries of third-country companies\nformed in accordance with the law of an\nEEA Member State having only their\nregistered office in the territory of an EEA\nMember State unless they show that they\npossess an effective and continuous link\nwith the economy of one of the EEA\nMember States.', '']]
                - 2 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
                - 3 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', ''], [None, "- directing the establishment or a department or\nsubdivision of the establishment;\n- supervising and controlling the work of other\nsupervisory, professional or managerial\nemployees;\n- having the authority personally to hire and fire\nor recommend hiring, firing or other personnel\nactions.\nSpecialists - persons working within a juridical\nperson who possess uncommon knowledge\nessential to the establishment's service,\nresearch equipment, techniques or\nmanagement. In assessing such knowledge,\naccount will be taken not only of the\nknowledge specific to the establishment, but\nalso whether the person has a high level of\nqualification referring to a type of work or\ntrade requiring specific technical knowledge,\nincluding membership in an accredited\nprofession.\nB. Business visitors. Temporary entry, stay and\nwork limited to a three month period\nBusiness visitors -\na) persons who are representatives of a service\nsupplier and are seeking temporary entry for\nthe purpose of negotiating for the sale of\nservices or entering into agreements to sell\nservices for that service supplier, where those\nrepresentatives will not be engaged in making\ndirect sales to the general public or in\nsupplying services themselves.", None, None]]
                - 4 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
                - 5 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '- All requirements regarding entry, stay, wages,\nworking conditions and social security benefits\nshall continue to apply.', '', ''], ['II. SECTOR SPECIFIC\nCOMMITMENTS', None, None, None], ['1. BUSINESS SERVICES\nA. Professional Services\n(a) Legal services - legal\nadvice on foreign law\n(concerned parts of CPC\n861)\n(b) Accounting, auditing and\nbookkeeping services\n(CPC 862)\n- Auditing services by\nregistered and licensed\nauditors', '1) None\n2) None\n3) The advocate is personally responsible for his\nactivities. To have an interest (own shares\nand/or be a member of the board of the firm) in\na firm of Norwegian advocates is only possible\nwhen taking active part in the business.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Foreign advocates can give advice on foreign\nlaw and international law after application.\nSome restrictions on co-operation with\nNorwegian advocates as a consequence of\nlegislation on how a firm of Norwegian\nadvocates may be organized.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. As for 3), but no restrictions on advice\non a strictly occasional basis.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) Public certification required based on\nNorwegian exam and 2 years experience in\nNorway. Audit reports must be drafted in\nNorwegian Permanent residence in Norway\nrequired.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. As 3).', '']]
                - 6 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Accounting and\nbookkeeping services\n(c) Taxation services\n(CPC 863)\n(d) Architectural services\n(CPC 8671)\n(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)\n(f) Integrated engineering\nservices (CPC 8673)', '1) Accounting shall take place in Norway. The\nKing may decide that accounting takes place\nabroad.\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. For authorized accountants,\npermanent residence in Norway required, and a\nminimum of 2 years practice in Norway during\nthe 5 preceding years.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', 'The supply by Korean\narchitects through joint\ncontracts with architects\nwho are licensed in\nNorway is allowed.']]
                - 7 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(g) Urban planning and\nlandscape architectural\nservices\n(CPC 8674)\n(h) Medical and dental services\n(CPC 9312)\n(i) Veterinary services\n(CPC 932)\n(j) Deliveries and related\nservices, nursing services,\nphysiotherapeutic and para-\nmedical services\n(CPC 93191)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) Must speak Norwegian and have passed certain\nnational exams in different areas. Foreign\nexams giving equivalent competence may be\nrecognized.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. As 3).\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. Foreign exams giving equivalent\ncompetence may be recognized.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. Must speak Norwegian and have\npassed certain national exams in different\nareas. Foreign exams giving equivalent\ncompetence may be recognized.', '']]
                - 8 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Computer and Related\nServices\n(a) Consultancy services\nrelated to the installation of\ncomputer hardware\n(CPC 841)\n(b) Software implementation\nservices (CPC 842)\n(c) Data processing services\n(CPC 843)\n(d) Data base services\n(CPC 844)\n(e) Maintenance and repair\nservices for office\nequipment including\ncomputers and other\ncomputer services\n(CPC 845, CPC 849)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 9 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Research and Development\nServices\n(b) R&D services on social\nsciences and humanities\n(CPC 852)\nD. Real Estate Services\n(b) Real Estate Services on a\nfee or contract basis\n(CPC 822)\n- Real estate agency\n- Real estate agent', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. Upon request, education/examination\nfrom abroad may be accepted.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. Upon request, education/examination\nfrom abroad may be accepted.', '']]
                - 10 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Rental/Leasing Services\nwithout Operators\na), b), c) Relating to ships1,\naircraft, other transport\nequipment\n(CPC 83102, CPC\n83103, CPC 83104,\nCPC 83105)\n(c) Car-hiring (CPC 83101)\n(d) Relating to other machinery\nand equipment (CPC\n83106-83109)\nF. Other Business Services\n(a) Advertising services\n(CPC 871)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None other than:\nAircrafts: to be registered in the aircraft\nregister of Norway, the aircraft must be\nowned either by Norwegian natural\npersons or by Norwegian juridical persons.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 11 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
                - 12 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(h) Services incidental to\nmining (CPC 883 + 5115)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 13 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(m) Related scientific and\ntechnical consulting\nservices (CPC 8675)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 14 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['(r) Printing and publishing\n(CPC 88442)\n(s) Convention services\n(CPC 87909)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['(t) Other\n- Exhibition management\nservices (parts of CPC\n87909)\n- Interior design (concerned\nparts of CPC 87907)\n- Translation and\ninterpretation services,\nexcept government\nauthorized translators (Part\nof CPC 87905)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 15 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['2. COMMUNICATION\nSERVICES\nB. Courier Services\n(CPC 7512)\nC. Telecommunication\nServices\n(a) Voice telephony\n(b) Packet-switched data\ntransmission services\n(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission\n(d) Telex services\n(e) Telegraph services\n(f) Facsimile services\n(g) Leased circuit services\n(o) Other\n- Mobile and personal\ncommunications services\nand systems\n- Value-added services\n(excludes voice telephony,\ntelegraph and telex, packet-\nand circuit-switched data\nservices, mobile radio\ntelephony, paging and\nsatellite services)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) No limitations except as specified for\ntransportation services\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal\ncommitments\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in horizontal\ncommitments\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 16 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['3. CONSTRUCTION AND\nRELATED\nENGINEERING\nSERVICES\nA. General Construction Work\nfor Buildings\n(CPC 512)\nB. General Construction Work\nfor Civil Engineering\n(CPC 513)\nC. Installation and Assembly\nWork\n(CPC 514, CPC 516)\nD. Building Completion and\nFinishing Work\n(CPC 517)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n5)\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. For electrical work, plumbing and\nwater sanitation, foreign exams giving\nequivalent competence may be recognized on a\ncase by case basis.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
                - 17 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Other\n- Pre-erection work at\nconstruction sites\n(CPC 511)\n- Special trade construction\nwork\n(CPC 515)\n- Renting services relating to\nequipment for\nconstruction/demolition of\nbuildings/civil engineering\nworks, with operator\n(CPC 518)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', ''], ['4. DISTRIBUTION\nSERVICES\nFirst hand sales of raw fish\nand private import of\nalcohol are exempted\nA. Commission agents’\nservices (CPC 621) (Trade\nin arms, alcohol and\npharmaceuticals exempted)\nB. Wholesale Trade\nServices (CPC 622)\n(Import and trade in\narms and\npharmaceuticals\nexempted)\n- Wholesale Trade Services\nof electricity', '1) None, except unbound for electricity\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None, except unbound for electricity\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 18 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Retailing Services\n(CPC 631+632+6111+\n6113+6121) (Trade in\npharmaceutical products,\nalcohol and arms\nexempted)\n- Retail sales of electricity\nD. Franchising\n(CPC 8929)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 19 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['5. EDUCATION SERVICES\nEducational services\nleading to the conferring of\nState recognized exams\nand/or degrees\n- Primary and lower\nsecondary education\nservices\n- Upper secondary education\nservices\n- Higher education services\n- Adult education\nEducational services not\nleading to the conferring of\nState recognized exams\nand/or degrees', '1) As 3)\n2) None\n3) Primary and secondary education are public\nservice functions. Authorization may be given\nto foundations and other legal entities to offer\nadditional parallel or specialized education.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection. Teaching qualifications from abroad\nmay be recognized, and an exam must be\npassed.\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 20 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['6. ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES\nWith the exemption of public service functions whether owned and operated or contracted out by local, regional or central government.', None, None, None], ['A. Wastewater management\n(CPC 9401)\nB. Solid/Hazardous waste\nmanagement.\n- Refuse Disposal Services\n(CPC 9402)\n- Sanitation and Similar\nServices\n(CPC 9403)\nC. Protection of ambient air\nand climate\n- Services to reduce exhaust\ngases and other emissions\nand improve air quality\n(CPC 94040)\nD. Remediation and cleanup of\nsoil & water\n- Treatment, remediation of\ncontaminated/polluted soil\nand water (part of CPC\n94060)', '1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound, except for advisory services\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 21 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['E. Noise & vibration\nabatement\n- Noise abatement services\n(CPC 94050)\nF. Protection of biodiversity\nand landscape\n- Nature and landscape\nprotection services (part of\nCPC 9460)\nG. Other environmental &\nancillary services\n- Other environmental\nprotection services not\nclassified elsewhere (CPC\n94090)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['7. FINANCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None], ['i. Norway undertakes commitments on financial services in accordance with the "Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services" (the Understanding) of the\nWTO General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).\nii. The market access commitments in respect of modes 1) and 2) apply to the transactions indicated in paragraphs B.3 and B.4 of the market access section of the\nUnderstanding respectively.\niii. The restrictions and limitations listed in the schedule under mode 1) apply to regulatory measures directed towards non-resident financial service suppliers established\noutside the European Economic Area. The limitations listed in the schedule under mode 2) apply to regulatory measures directed towards financial service consumers\nresiding in Norway.\niv. The following restrictions and limitations apply:', None, None, None]]
                - 22 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['A. Insurance and Insurance-\nRelated Services', '1) In addition to the services listed in paragraph\nB.3 (a) of the Understanding, non-resident\ninsurance companies may supply insurance\nrelated to passenger vessels (including cruise\nvessels), ocean-going fishing vessels, offshore\nexploration or insurance contracts regarding\ndomestic companies with an activity of at least\n10-man-years or annual sales above a certain\nthreshold. As of 2005 this threshold is set at\nNOK 50 million.\nNon-resident insurance companies must supply\nthe services listed above and in paragraph\nB.3(a) of the Understanding through an\ninsurance broker authorized in Norway.\n2) None', '1) None\n2) None', '']]
                - 23 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) No single or coordinated group of investors\nmay acquire or hold more than 10 per cent of\nthe share capital in a Norwegian insurance\ncompany. A foreign or Norwegian financial\ninstitution may however, subject to approval\nacquire and hold up to 25 per cent of such\nshares when this is part of a strategic alliance\nagreement. The Ministry of Finance and\nCustoms may in special circumstances make\nexemptions from these limitations on single\ninvestor ownership.\nNotwithstanding the foregoing, foreign\ninsurance companies may establish partly or\nwholly owned subsidiaries in Norway. The\nother owners of such partly owned subsidiaries\nmust be foreign or Norwegian financial\ninstitutions.\nFor subsidiaries or branches of financial\ninstitutions not incorporated within the\nEuropean Economic Area, a separation\nrequirements applies between life insurance,\nnon-life insurance and credit risk insurance.\nInsurance companies incorporated in Norway\nmust be organized as joint stock companies or\nmutual insurance companies. Insurance\nbrokerage firms incorporated in Norway must\nbe organized as joint stock companies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '3) For mutual insurance companies the manager,\nat least half the members of the board of\ndirectors and half the members of the corporate\nassembly must be permanent residents of\nNorway. This requirement does not apply to\ncitizens of a state within the European\nEconomic Area when residing in such state.\nThe Ministry of Industry and Trade may grant\nexemptions from these rules.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
                - 24 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['B. Banking and Other\nFinancial Services\n(excluding insurance)', '1) None.\n2) None.\n3) No single or coordinated group of investors\nmay acquire or hold more than 10 per cent of\nthe share capital of commercial banks, central\nsecurities depositories or financing\nundertakings, or more than 10 per cent of the\nequity certificates of savings banks. A foreign\nor Norwegian financial institution may,\nhowever, subject to approval acquire and hold\nup to 25 per cent of such shares, except for\nclearing houses, or equity certificates when this\nis part of a strategic alliance agreement. In\naddition, the Ministry of Finance and Customs\nmay in special circumstances make exemptions\nfrom these limitations on single investor\nownership in such institutions.\nNotwithstanding the foregoing, foreign banks\nand financing undertakings may establish\npartly or wholly owned subsidiaries in\nNorway. The other owners of such partly\nowned subsidiaries must be banks or financial\ninstitutions respectively.\nCommercial banks, central securities\ndepositories, securities firms and management\ncompanies for collective investment funds\nincorporated in Norway must be organized as\njoint stock companies.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '1) None.\n2) None.\n3) None\nIn savings banks and financing undertakings\nwhich are not organized as joint stock\ncompanies, the members of decision-making\nbodies must be citizens of states within the\nEuropean Economic Area and permanently\nresiding in such states. The Ministry of\nFinance and Customs may grant exemptions\nfrom these rules.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection.', '']]
                - 25 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None], ['A. Hotels and Restaurants\nHotels, camping sites and\nother commercial\naccommodations,\nrestaurants, cafes, pubs,\nbars (CPC 641, CPC 642,\nCPC 643)\nB. Travel Agencies and Tour\nOperators Services\n(CPC 7471)\nC. Tourist Guides Services\n(CPC 7472)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', ''], ['10. RECREATIONAL, CULTURAL AND SPORTING SERVICES', None, None, ''], ['B. News Agency Services\n(CPC 962)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 26 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['11. TRANSPORT SERVICES', None, None, None]]
                - 27 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', "4) (a) Ships' crew NOR: Unbound except as\nindicated in the horizontal section.\n(b) Ships' crew NIS: Unbound except as\nindicated in the horizontal section.\n(c) Shore personnel: Unbound except as\nindicated in the horizontal section", '4) (a) NOR: Unbound except as indicated\nin the horizontal section\n(b) NIS: None, except for the captain who\nmust be a Norwegian citizen. Exemptions\nfrom this rule may be granted.\n(c) Shore personnel: Unbound except as indicated\nin the horizontal section', ''], ['Domestic freight transportation\n(part of CPC 7212), limited to\nthe following services\n- Transport feeder services\nrelated to international\ncargo\n- Transport of empty\ncontainers for international\ntrade\n- Maritime transport\nservicing offshore\npetroleum exploration and\nproduction', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) (a) Ships on the Norwegian Ordinary Ship\nRegister (NOR). Ships have to be owned\nby EEA citizens or by an EEA company\nwhere EEA citizens own at least 60 per\ncent of the capital. Exemptions from the\n60 per cent rule may be granted\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) (a) NOR: When the ship-owning company\nis a limited liability company, it must be\nheadquartered in the EEA area. The\nmajority of the members of the board,\nincluding the chairman, must be EEA\ncitizens resident in the EEA area, having\nresided in the EEA area the\npreceding two years.\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 28 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Domestic maritime towing and\npushing services, including\nanchor handling, servicing\npetroleum exploration and\nproduction\n(part of CPC 7214)\nMaritime auxiliary services:\nMaritime cargo handling\nservices (3)\n- Storage and warehousing\nservices (CPC 742);\ncustoms clearance services\n(4); container station and\ndepot services (5)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) (a) Ships on the Norwegian Ordinary Ship\nRegister (NOR). Ships have to be owned\nby EEA citizens or by an EEA\ncompany where EEA citizens own at least\n60 per cent of the capital. Exemptions\nfrom the 60 per cent rule may be granted.\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound∗\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) (a) NOR: When the ship-owning company\nis a limited liability company, it must be\nheadquartered in the EEA area. The\nmajority of the members of the board,\nincluding the chairman, must be EEA\ncitizens resident in the EEA area, having\nresided in the EEA area the\npreceding two years.\n(b) Other forms of commercial presence:\nNone\n4) Unbound, except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the\nhorizontal section\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 29 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Maritime agency services\n(6); freight forwarding\nservices (7)\n- Other supporting auxiliary\ntransport services (8)\nAuxiliary services as required\nby maritime transport operators:', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', "The following services are\nmade available to\ninternational maritime\ntransport suppliers on\nreasonable and non-\ndiscriminatory terms and\nconditions:\n1. Pilotage\n2. Towing and tug\nassistance\n3. Provisioning, fuelling,\nwatering\n4. Garbage collecting,\nballast waste disposal\n5. Port Captain's services\n6. Navigation aids\n7. Shore-based\noperational services\nessential to ship\noperations, including\ncommunications,\nwater, electrical\nsupplies"]]
                - 30 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', '8. Emergency repair\nfacilities\n9. Anchorage, berth,\nberthing services\n10. Container handling,\nstorage and\nwarehousing, freight\ntransport.\nWhere the road, rail,\ncoastal shipping and\nrelated auxiliary services\nare not otherwise fully\ncovered in this schedule, a\nmultimodal transport\noperator shall have the\nability to rent, hire or\ncharter trucks, railway\ncarriages and relate\nequipment, for the purpose\nof onward forwarding of\ninternational cargoes\ncarried by sea, or have\naccess to and use of these\nforms of transport services\nfor the purpose of\nproviding multimodal\ntransport services.']]
                - 31 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments']]
                - 32 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Ground handling', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None, except that categories of activities\ndepend of the size of the airport. The number\nof providers in each airport can be limited due\nto available space constraints and to not less\nthan two suppliers for other reasons. Non-\ndiscriminatory preapproval may apply.\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 33 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['F. Road Transport Services\na),b) Passenger and freight\ntransportation\n(CPC 7121, CPC\n7122, CPC 7123; not\nincluding domestic\ntransport)\n(e) Supporting services for\nroad transport services\n(CPC 744)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None, except for passenger transportation for\nwhich regular trips and shuttle services are\nconditioned by an economic needs test based\non traffic criteria\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
                - 34 -  
[['Sector or Sub-sector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['G. Pipeline transportation\n- Offshore upstream pipeline\ntransportation of petroleum\nand natural gas. Central\nnetwork control and\nmonitoring services\nexempted (concerned parts\nof CPC 71310)\nH. Services Auxiliary to All\nModes of Transport\n(a) Cargo-handling services\n(CPC 741)\n(b) Storage and warehouse\nservices (CPC 742)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound∗\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection\n1) Unbound*\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in the horizontal\nsection', '']]
 APPENDIX 5 TO ANNEX VII   SWITZERLAND – SCHEDULE OF SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3.16   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['', '', None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, '- The level of commitments in a particular services sector shall not supersede the level of commitments undertaken with respect to any other services sector to which', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'such service is an input or to which it is otherwise related.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '- CPC numbers indicated in parenthesis are references to the UN Provisional Central Product Classification (Statistical Papers, Series M, n° 77, Provisional Central', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Product Classification, Department of International Economics and Social Affairs, Statistical Office of the United Nations, New York, 1991).', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '- Unless otherwise provided for, requirements of residency, domicile, commercial presence, etc. in a commitment relate to the territory of Switzerland.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '- Attachments I and II to this schedule form an integral part thereof.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '', None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, 'PART I. HORIZONTAL COMMITMENTS', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '', None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, 'This Part sets out those commitments that apply to trade in services in all scheduled services sectors unless otherwise specified. Those commitments that apply to trade in', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'specific services sectors are listed in Part II.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['ALL SECTORS\nINCLUDED IN THIS\nSCHEDULE', 'ALL SECTORS', '1) None\n2) None', '', '1) None except unbound for subsidies, tax', '', '', '', None], [None, 'INCLUDED IN THIS', None, None, 'incentives and tax credits', None, None, None, None], [None, 'SCHEDULE', None, None, '2) None except unbound for subsidies, tax', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, 'incentives and tax credits', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None]]
 - 2 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3) None', '', '3) None except for the following:', '', ''], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', 'I. Composition of governing boards', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'A domicile requirement is applied to the forms', None, None], [None, None, None, 'of legal entities hereafter:', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], [None, None, None, '- for a "joint-stock company" (société anonyme/', None, None], [None, None, None, 'Aktiengesellschaft) or a "stock company with', None, None], [None, None, None, 'unlimited partners" (société en commandite par', None, None], [None, None, None, 'actions/ Kommanditaktiengesellschaft): the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'majority of the board of directors must be', None, None], [None, None, None, 'domiciled in Switzerland. However, this', None, None], [None, None, None, 'domicile requirement can be set below this', None, None], [None, None, None, 'limit;', None, None], [None, None, None, '- for a "limited liability company" (société à', None, None], [None, None, None, 'responsabilité limitée/ Gesellschaft mit', None, None], [None, None, None, 'beschränkter Haftung): at least one manager', None, None], [None, None, None, 'must be domiciled in Switzerland;', None, None], [None, None, None, '- for a "co-operative society" (société', None, None], [None, None, None, 'coopérative/ Genossenschaft): the majority of', None, None], [None, None, None, 'the administrators must be domiciled in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'Switzerland.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', 'II. Shareholders’ circles', '', ''], [None, None, None, '"Joint-stock companies" are not prohibited to', None, None], [None, None, None, 'foresee in their articles of incorporation that the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'company may reject persons as acquirers of', None, None], [None, None, None, 'registered shares, as far and as long as their', None, None], [None, None, None, 'recognition by the company might prevent the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'company from providing proof of the', None, None], [None, None, None, "composition of the shareholders' circle required", None, None], [None, None, None, 'by federal law.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 3 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'III. Branching', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'The establishment of a branch requires a', None, None], [None, None, None, 'representative (natural person) with domicile in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'Switzerland who is duly authorized by the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'company to fully represent it.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', 'IV. Commercial presence without juridical', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'personality', None, None], [None, None, None, 'The establishment of a commercial presence by', None, None], [None, None, None, 'natural persons or in the form of an enterprise', None, None], [None, None, None, 'without juridical personality according to Swiss', None, None], [None, None, None, 'law (i.e. in a form other than "joint-stock', None, None], [None, None, None, 'company", "limited liability company" or "co-', None, None], [None, None, None, 'operative society") is subject to the requirement', None, None], [None, None, None, 'of a permanent residency permit of the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'associate(s) by cantonal law.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', 'V. Eligibility for subsidies', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'Eligibility for subsidies, tax incentives and tax', None, None], [None, None, None, 'credits may be limited to persons established in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'a particular geographical subdivision of', None, None], [None, None, None, 'Switzerland.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', 'VI. Acquisition of real estate', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'The acquisition of real estate by foreigners who', None, None], [None, None, None, 'are not permanently established in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, 'and by enterprises with headquarters abroad or', None, None], [None, None, None, 'under foreign control is subject to authorization.', None, None], [None, None, None, 'However, no authorization is required for:', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '', '', '(a) the acquisition of premises for professional use', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'and business activities;', None, None], ['', '', '', '(b) the acquisition of main residences for the', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'purpose of personal housing needs by', None, None], [None, None, None, 'foreigners who are domiciled in Switzerland.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 4 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '', 'For the acquisition of holiday residences and', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'secondary residences for the purpose of', None, None], [None, None, None, 'personal housing needs, authorization is granted', None, None], [None, None, None, 'upon verification of the purpose.', None, None], ['', '', '', 'Prohibited are purely financial investments and', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'trade in apartments, with the following', None, None], [None, None, None, 'exceptions:', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None], [None, None, None, '(a) foreigners can invest without authorization in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'financial participations (i.e. shares) in legal', None, None], [None, None, None, 'persons that own and trade housing properties,', None, None], [None, None, None, 'provided such participations are quoted in a', None, None], [None, None, None, 'stock exchange in Switzerland;', None, None], ['', '', '', '(b) foreign and foreign-controlled banks and', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'insurance companies are granted authorization', None, None], [None, None, None, 'to acquire property that serves as a security for', None, None], [None, None, None, 'mortgage loans in case of bankruptcy or', None, None], [None, None, None, 'liquidation;', None, None], ['', '', '', '(c) foreign and foreign-controlled insurance', '', ''], [None, None, None, 'companies are granted authorization to invest in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'real estate, provided the total value of the', None, None], [None, None, None, 'buyer’s property does not exceed the technical', None, None], [None, None, None, 'reserves required for the company’s activities in', None, None], [None, None, None, 'Switzerland.', None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 5 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '4) Unbound except for measures concerning the', '', '4) Unbound except for measures concerning the\ncategories of natural persons referred to in the\nmarket access column, subject to the following\nlimitations and conditions:\n(a) working conditions prevailing in the branch and\nthe place of activity provided by law and/or\ncollective agreement (with respect to\nremuneration, working hours, etc.);\n(b) measures limiting professional and\ngeographical mobility within Switzerland;\n(c) regulations related to statutory systems of social\nsecurity and public retirement plans (with\nrespect to qualifying period, residency\nrequirement, etc.); and\n(d) all other provisions of the legislation relating to\nimmigration, entry, stay and work.\nThe enterprise employing such persons shall\ncooperate, upon request, with the authorities in\ncharge of the enforcement of these measures.\nEligibility for subsidies, tax incentives and tax\ncredits may be limited to persons domiciled in a\nparticular geographical subdivision of\nSwitzerland.', ''], [None, None, 'entry and temporary stay of natural persons', None, None, None], [None, None, '(hereafter "persons") falling within the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'categories defined in paragraphs A, B, C and', None, None, None], [None, None, 'D below, and subject to the limitations and', None, None, None], [None, None, 'conditions set out under the national treatment', None, None, None], [None, None, 'column and to the condition that entry and', None, None, None], [None, None, 'stay of foreign service suppliers in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland are subject to authorization', None, None, None], [None, None, '(requirement of residency permit and work', None, None, None], [None, None, 'permit).', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, 'For essential personnel as defined in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'paragraph A below, the period of stay is', None, None, None], [None, None, 'limited to a period of three years, which may', None, None, None], [None, None, 'be extended to a maximum of five years. For', None, None, None], [None, None, 'other essential personnel as defined in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'paragraphs B, C and D below, the period of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'stay is limited to 90 days within one year; if', None, None, None], [None, None, 'an authorization for such a period of stay is', None, None, None], [None, None, 'renewed the following year, the applicant', None, None, None], [None, None, 'must stay abroad at least two months between', None, None, None], [None, None, 'the two consecutive periods of stay in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Persons staying in or entering Switzerland', None, None, None], [None, None, 'with an open-ended or extendable residence', None, None, None], [None, None, 'permit based on an employment contract not', None, None, None], [None, None, 'limited in time for Switzerland are not', None, None, None], [None, None, 'considered as persons residing in or entering', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland for the purpose of temporary stay', None, None, None], [None, None, 'or temporary employment in Switzerland.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 6 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'A. INTRA-CORPORATE TRANSFEREES', '', '', ''], [None, None, '(ICT)', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Essential persons transferred to Switzerland', None, None, None], [None, None, 'within a specific business or company of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'another Party and defined under (a) and (b)', None, None, None], [None, None, 'below who are employees of that business or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'company (hereafter enterprise) supplying', None, None, None], [None, None, 'services in Switzerland through a branch,', None, None, None], [None, None, 'subsidiary or affiliate established in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland and who have been beforehand', None, None, None], [None, None, 'employees of their enterprise outside', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland for a period of not less than one', None, None, None], [None, None, 'year immediately preceding their application', None, None, None], [None, None, 'for admission.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], ['', '', '(a) Executives and senior managers:', '', '', ''], [None, None, 'Persons who primarily direct the enterprise or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'one of its departments and who receive only', None, None, None], [None, None, 'general supervision or direction from high-', None, None, None], [None, None, 'level executives, the board of directors or the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'stockholders of the enterprise. Executives and', None, None, None], [None, None, 'senior managers would not directly perform', None, None, None], [None, None, 'tasks related to the actual supply of services of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'the enterprise.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], ['', '', '(b) Specialists:', '', '', ''], [None, None, 'Highly qualified persons who, within an', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise, are essential for the supply of a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'specific service by reason of their knowledge', None, None, None], [None, None, 'at an advanced level of expertise in the field of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'services, research equipment, techniques or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'management of the enterprise.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 7 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'B. BUSINESS VISITORS (BV) AND', '', '', ''], [None, None, 'SERVICES SALESPERSONS (SS)', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, '(a) Business visitors responsible for establishing a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'commercial presence (BV):', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Persons who are employees of an enterprise', None, None, None], [None, None, 'not having commercial presence in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland and who have been beforehand', None, None, None], [None, None, 'employees of that enterprise outside', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland for a period of not less than one', None, None, None], [None, None, 'year immediately preceding their application', None, None, None], [None, None, 'for admission, and who fulfil the conditions of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'paragraph A.(a) above, and who are entering', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland for the purpose of establishing a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'commercial presence of that enterprise in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland. Persons responsible for', None, None, None], [None, None, 'establishing a commercial presence may not', None, None, None], [None, None, 'sell services directly to the general public or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'supply services themselves.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], ['', '', '(b) Services salespersons (SS):', '', '', ''], [None, None, 'Persons employed or mandated by an', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise and who stay temporarily in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland in order to conclude the contract', None, None, None], [None, None, 'for the sale of a service on behalf of the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise which employs them or has', None, None, None], [None, None, 'mandated them. Services salespersons may', None, None, None], [None, None, 'not sell services directly to the general public', None, None, None], [None, None, 'or supply services themselves.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 8 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'C. CONTRACTUAL SERVICE SUPPLIERS', '', '', ''], [None, None, '(CSS)', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, 'CSS – Employees of a juridical person:', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Persons who are employees of an enterprise', None, None, None], [None, None, 'located outside Switzerland not having', None, None, None], [None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland (and', None, None, None], [None, None, 'other than enterprises supplying services as', None, None, None], [None, None, 'defined by CPC 872), which has concluded a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'services contract with an enterprise engaged in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'substantive business in Switzerland, and who', None, None, None], [None, None, 'have been beforehand employees of the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise located outside Switzerland for a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'time period of not less than one year', None, None, None], [None, None, 'immediately preceding their application for', None, None, None], [None, None, 'admission, and who fulfil the conditions of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'paragraph A.(b) above and who supply a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'service in Switzerland as a professional in a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'service sector as set out below on behalf of the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise located outside Switzerland; as a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'further requirement three years of related', None, None, None], [None, None, 'experience is required. Any limitations', None, None, None], [None, None, 'scheduled in Part II shall apply. Per contract,', None, None, None], [None, None, 'temporary entry for a limited number of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'service suppliers will be granted for a single', None, None, None], [None, None, 'period of three months, the number of service', None, None, None], [None, None, 'suppliers depending on the size of the task to', None, None, None], [None, None, 'be performed under the contract. Individual', None, None, None], [None, None, 'service suppliers not employed by such', None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprise located outside Switzerland are', None, None, None], [None, None, 'considered as persons seeking access to the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Swiss employment market.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 9 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'Services sectors:', '', '', ''], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Legal advisory services (part of CPC 861)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Engineering services (CPC 8672)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Consultancy services related to the installation', None, None, None], [None, None, 'of computer hardware (CPC 841)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Software implementation services (CPC 842)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Auditing services, excluding auditing of banks', None, None, None], [None, None, '(part of CPC 86211)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Accounting review services (CPC 86212)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Business tax planning and consulting services', None, None, None], [None, None, '(CPC 86301)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Business tax preparation and review services', None, None, None], [None, None, '(CPC 86302)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Architectural services (CPC 8671)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Urban planning services (CPC 86741)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Research and development services (CPC', None, None, None], [None, None, '851-853)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Management consulting services (CPC 865)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Technical testing and analysis service (CPC', None, None, None], [None, None, '8676)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Related scientific and technical consulting', None, None, None], [None, None, 'services (CPC 8675)', None, None, None], [None, None, '- Maintenance and repair of aircraft (part of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'CPC 8868)', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 10 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'D. OTHER', '', '', ''], [None, None, '', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Installers and maintainers (IM):', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Qualified specialists supplying installation or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'maintenance services for machinery or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'industrial equipment. The supply of that', None, None, None], [None, None, 'service has to occur on a fee or contractual', None, None, None], [None, None, 'basis (installation/maintenance contract)', None, None, None], [None, None, 'between the builder of the machinery or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'equipment and the owner of that machinery or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'equipment, both of them being juridical', None, None, None], [None, None, 'persons.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 11 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['', '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, 'PART II. SECTOR-SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '1. BUSINESS SERVICES', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', '', None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'A. Professional Services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '(a) Legal services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- International commercial\narbitration services\n(part of CPC 861)', '- International commercial', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, 'arbitration services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 861)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['- Legal advisory services\n(part of CPC 861)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1), 2), 3) All cantons except Ticino: None;', '', '', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, 'Ticino: None except that legal advisory services', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, 'on Swiss fiscal law is restricted to "fiduciaro', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, 'commercialista" (commercial fiduciary)', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '4) All cantons except Ticino: Unbound except as', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'indicated in Part I;', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'Ticino: Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'legal advisory services on Swiss fiscal law is', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'restricted to "fiduciaro commercialista"', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '(commercial fiduciary)', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['', '- Mediation and extra-', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, 'judicial conciliation', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, 'services', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 861)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None]]
 - 12 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Patent attorney services\n(includes trademarks)\n(part of CPC 861)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1), 2), 3) None except that to register a Swiss patent', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'or trademark at the Swiss Federal Institute of', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Intellectual Property (IGE/IPI) on behalf of a', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'client, IGE/IPI may require that patent attorneys', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'must have a permanent postal address in', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Switzerland and may require one year of', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'professional experience made in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'under the supervision of a patent attorney', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'admitted by IGE/IPI', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I and with', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'the limitations under 1), 2), 3) above', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(b) Accounting, auditing and', '', '', '', '', None, ''], [None, 'bookkeeping services', None, None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Accounting and\nbookkeeping services\n(CPC 862 except 86211)', '- Accounting and', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'bookkeeping services', None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 862 except 86211)', None, None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['- Auditing services,\nexcluding auditing of banks\n(part of CPC 86211)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) None except that at least one auditor of a "joint-', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'stock company" (société anonyme/', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Aktiengesellschaft) or a "stock company with', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'unlimited partners" (société en commandite par', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'actions/ Kommanditaktiengesellschaft) must', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'have his domicile, his principal office, or a', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'registered branch in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; at least', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'one auditor of a "joint-stock company" or a', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '"stock company with unlimited partners" must', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'have his domicile, his principal office, or a', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'registered branch in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 13 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['(c) Taxation services\n(CPC 863)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['(d) Architectural services\n(CPC 8671)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1), 2), 4) Supply of', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, 'architectural services by', None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, 'Korean architects through', None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, 'joint contracts with Swiss', None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, 'architects is allowed', None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'without Swiss licensing', None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'requirement.', None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None], ['(e) Engineering services\n(CPC 8672)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '', '1) None except that for survey activities for', '', '', '', None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'official public purposes,1 a Swiss licence is', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'necessary, which is delivered to qualified', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'surveyors after passing an exam', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that for survey activities for', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'official public purposes, a Swiss licence is', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'necessary, which is delivered to qualified', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'surveyors after passing an exam', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; for', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'survey activities for official public purposes, a', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Swiss licence is necessary, which is delivered to', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'qualified surveyors after passing an exam', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['(f) Integrated engineering\nservices\n(CPC 8673)', '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', None, None], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 14 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(g) Urban planning and', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'landscape architectural', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'services', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 8674)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(h) Medical and dental services\n(CPC 9312)', '(h) Medical and dental services', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', '1) None', None, '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 9312)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) Unbound', None, None, '3) None except that Swiss nationality is necessary', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound', None, None, 'to practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; Swiss', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'nationality necessary to practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(i) Veterinary surgeons\n(CPC 932)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) Unbound\n4) Unbound', None, None, '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that Swiss nationality is necessary', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'to practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; Swiss', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'nationality necessary to practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'B. Computer and Related', '', '', None, None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '(a) Consultancy services', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'related to the installation of', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'computer hardware', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 841)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) Software implementation\nservices\n(CPC 842)', '(b) Software implementation', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 842)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(c) Data processing services\n(CPC 843)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 15 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(d) Data base services\n(CPC 844)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(e) Other', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Maintenance and repair', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'services of office', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'machinery and equipment', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'including computers', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(CPC 845)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Data preparation services\n(CPC 8491)', '- Data preparation services', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 8491)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- Training services for staff', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, 'of clients; Web-site design', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'services; Integrated', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'consulting services on', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, 'computerized systems and', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, 'networks; other', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'professional computer', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'services foreseen under', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Swiss law without MA or', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'NT limitation', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 8499)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 16 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'C. Research and Development', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Excluding projects financed', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'in whole or in part by', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'public funds', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) R&D services on natural\nsciences\n(part of CPC 851)', '(a) R&D services on natural', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'sciences', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 851)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) R&D services on social\nsciences\n(part of CPC 852)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(c) Interdisciplinary R&D\nservices\n(part of CPC 853)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'D. Real Estate Services', '', '', '', None, '', '', '', ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(a) Involving own or leased', '', '', None, None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'property', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Involving own or leased', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'property located on the', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'territory of another Party', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 821)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) On a fee or contract basis\n(CPC 822)', '(b) On a fee or contract basis', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 822)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 17 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'E. Rental/Leasing without', '', '', '', None, None, ''], [None, 'Operators', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '(a) Relating to ships', '', '', '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- For maritime transport\nservices\n(part of CPC 83103)', '- For maritime transport', None, '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None except that in order to sail under Swiss\nflag, vessels must be 100 per cent owned and\ncontrolled by Swiss nationals, 3/4 of which\nhaving residency in Switzerland\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, 'services', None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 83103)', None, None, None, '3) None except that board of directors and', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, 'management of companies owning ships sailing', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'under Swiss flag must be composed of Swiss', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'nationals, the majority of which having', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'residency in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['- For internal waterway\ntransport on the Rhine\n(part of CPC 83103)', None, None, '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None except that in order to sail under Swiss\nflag, vessels must be owned by a company\nwhich is substantially influenced (at least 66\nper cent of capital and vote) by persons\ndomiciled in Switzerland or in a country\naccording to the Mannheim Convention and\nthe protocols related to it\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that traffic rights including', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'cabotage are limited on the basis of the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Mannheim Convention and the protocols', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'related to it; owner of vessels must have an', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'appropriate managing agency in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; traffic', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'rights including cabotage are limited on the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'basis of the Mannheim Convention and the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'protocols related to it', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(b) Relating to aircraft', '', '', '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Relating to aircraft,', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'excluding rental/leasing to', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'companies flying on regular', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'schedule or on charter', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 83104)', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 18 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(c) Relating to other transport', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'equipment', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 83101 + 83102 +', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '83105)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(d) Relating to other machinery\nand equipment\n(CPC 83106-83109)', '(d) Relating to other machinery', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'and equipment', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 83106-83109)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(e) Other', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Leasing or rental services', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'concerning personal and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'household goods, excluding', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'goods embodying any type', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'of sexual or violent content', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 832)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 19 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'F. Other Business Services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '(a) Advertising services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Advertising services,', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'excluding advertising for', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'goods subject to import', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'authorization and excluding', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'pharmaceutical products,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'alcoholic beverages,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'tobacco products, toxics,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'explosives, weapons and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'ammunition', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 8711 + part of', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '8712)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Outdoor advertising', '', "1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None except that outdoor advertising services\non the public ground is permitted only when\ncontracted out by cantons and municipalities\nthrough long term exclusive supplier's\ncontracts\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I", None, None, '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'services, excluding', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'advertising for goods', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'subject to import', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'authorization and excluding', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'pharmaceutical products,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'alcoholic beverages,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'tobacco products, toxics,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'explosives, weapons and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'ammunition', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 8719)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(b) Market research and public\nopinion polling\n(CPC 864)', '(b) Market research and public', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'opinion polling', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 864)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 20 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Management consulting\nservices\n(CPC 865)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['(d) Services related to\nmanagement consulting\n(CPC 866)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(e) Technical testing and\nanalysis services\n(CPC 8676)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(f) Services incidental to', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'agriculture, hunting and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'forestry', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Consulting services on', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'agriculture, hunting and', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'forestry', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 881)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(g) Services incidental to\nfishing\n(CPC 882)', '(g) Services incidental to', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'fishing', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 882)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 21 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(h) Services incidental to', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'mining', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Services incidental to', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'mining, excluding', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'prospection, surveying,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'exploration and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'exploitation', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 883 + part of', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '5115)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(i) Services incidental to\nmanufacturing\n(CPC 884 + 885)', '(i) Services incidental to', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'manufacturing', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 884 + 885)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(l) Investigation and security', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Security consultation\nservices\n(CPC 87302)', '- Security consultation', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 87302)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(m) Related scientific and', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'technical consulting', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'services', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 8675)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(n) Maintenance and repair of\nequipment (not including\nmaritime vessels, aircraft or\nother transport equipment)\n(CPC 633 + 8861-8866)', '(n) Maintenance and repair of', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'equipment (not including', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'maritime vessels, aircraft or', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'other transport equipment)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, '(CPC 633 + 8861-8866)', None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None], [None, '', None, None, 'for group CPC 633', None, None, 'for group CPC 633', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 22 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(o) Building cleaning services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Building cleaning services\n(CPC 874 except 87409)', '- Building cleaning services', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 874 except 87409)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(p) Photographic services\n(CPC 875)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['(q) Packaging services\n(CPC 876)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(r) Printing, publishing\n(CPC 88442)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(s) Convention services\n(part of CPC 87909)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 23 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(t) Other', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Telephone answering\nservices\n(CPC 87903)', '- Telephone answering', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 87903)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Duplication services\n(CPC 87904)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Translation and\ninterpretation services\n(CPC 87905)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1), 2), 3) All cantons except Genève and Zürich:', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, 'None;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, 'Genève: None except unbound for translation', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, 'for official purposes;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, 'Zürich: None except requirement of residency', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'in the canton for translation for official', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'purposes', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '4) All cantons except Genève and Zürich:', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'Genève: Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'and unbound for translation for official', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'purposes;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'Zürich: Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'and requirement of residency in the canton for', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'translation for official purposes', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['- Mailing list compilation\nand mailing services\n(CPC 87906)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 24 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['- Specialty design services\n(CPC 87907)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- Agency services on behalf', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, 'of individual performers2;', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'Design services for', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'ergonomy of working', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, 'place; Other business', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, 'consulting services n.e.c.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 87909)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 25 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['', '2. COMMUNICATION', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'A./B. Postal/Courier Services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Express delivery services3\n(part of CPC 7511 + part of\n7512)', '- Express delivery services3', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 7511 + part of', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '7512)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['', 'C. Telecommunication', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, '', None, None], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, 'For the purposes of the commitments below, telecommunication services are the transport of electro-magnetic signals – sound, data, image and combinations thereof –', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'excluding broadcasting.4', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'Basic Telecommunication', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, '', '', None], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) Voice telephone services\n(CPC 7521)', '(a) Voice telephone services', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, '(CPC 7521)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None], ['(b) Packet-switched data\ntransmission\n(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', '', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None, None]]
 - 26 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Circuit-switched data\ntransmission\n(part of CPC 7523)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(d) Telex services\n(part of CPC 7523)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(e) Telegraph services\n(CPC 7522)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(f) Facsimile services\n(part of CPC 7521 + 7529)', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(g) Private leased circuit\nservices\n(part of CPC 7522 + 7523)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 27 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'Enhanced/Value-added', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'Telecommunication', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(h) Electronic mail\n(part of CPC 7523)', '(h) Electronic mail', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(i) Voice mail\n(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(j) On-line information and\ndata base retrieval\n(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(k) Electronic data interchange\n(EDI)\n(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(l) Enhanced/value-added', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, 'facsimile service, incl. store', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'and forward, store and', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'retrieve', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 7523)', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(m) Code and protocol\nconversion', '(m) Code and protocol', None, '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'conversion', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 28 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(n) On-line information and/or', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'data processing (incl.', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'transaction processing)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 843)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(o) Other', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Videotext', '- Videotext', None, '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Enhanced/value added', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'services, based on licensed', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'wireless networks including', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'enhanced/value added', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'paging services', None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 29 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '3. CONSTRUCTION AND', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'RELATED', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'ENGINEERING', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['A. General Construction Work\nfor Buildings\n(CPC 512)', 'A. General Construction Work', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, 'for Buildings', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 512)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'B. General Construction Work', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'for Civil Engineering', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Construction work for civil\nengineering\n(CPC 5131-5137)', '- Construction work for civil', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, 'engineering', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(CPC 5131-5137)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['C. Installation and Assembly\nWork\n(CPC 514 + 516)', None, None, '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None except unbound for gas, water and', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, 'electricity meters, gas pipelines, electricity and', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, 'main water lines, which are reserved', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'exclusively to cantons or municipalities or to', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'specific operators', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['D. Building Completion and\nFinishing Work\n(CPC 517)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 30 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'E. Other', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Pre-erection work at\nconstruction sites\n(CPC 511)', '- Pre-erection work at', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, 'construction sites', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 511)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Special trade construction\nwork\n(CPC 515)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- Renting services related to', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, ''], [None, 'equipment for construction', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'or demolition of buildings', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'or civil engineering works,', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, 'with operator', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '(CPC 518)5', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 31 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '4. DISTRIBUTION', '', '', None, None, '', ''], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'A. Commission Agents’', '', '', None, None, '', ''], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', "- Commission agents'", '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], [None, 'services excluding services', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'related to goods subject to', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'import authorization, to', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'pharmaceutical products,', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'toxics, explosives, weapons', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'and ammunition, and', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'precious metals', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 6211)', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'B. Wholesale Trade Services', '', '', None, None, '', ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Wholesale trade services', '', '', '1) None', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], [None, 'excluding services related', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None], [None, 'to goods subject to import', None, None, '3) None except for large-scale distribution', None, None, None], [None, 'authorization, to', None, None, 'facilities, which are subject to authorization', None, None, None], [None, 'pharmaceutical products,', None, None, 'procedures at cantonal and/or municipal level', None, None, None], [None, 'toxics, explosives, weapons', None, None, 'that may lead to the rejection of the', None, None, None], [None, 'and ammunition, and', None, None, 'authorization; no economic needs tests or', None, None, None], [None, 'precious metals', None, None, 'other market access restrictions applicable', None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 622)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 32 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'C. Retailing Services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Retailing services', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None except for large-scale distribution\nfacilities, which are subject to authorization\nprocedures at cantonal and/or municipal level\nthat may lead to the rejection of the\nauthorization; no economic needs tests or\nother market access restrictions applicable\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, ''], [None, 'excluding services related', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'to goods subject to import', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'authorization, to', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'pharmaceutical products,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'toxics, explosives, weapons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'and ammunition, and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'precious metals; and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'excluding retailing through', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'mobile sales unit', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 631 + part of', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '632 + CPC 6111 + 6113 +', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '6121)6', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['D. Franchising\n(CPC 8929)', 'D. Franchising', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 8929)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 33 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '5. EDUCATIONAL', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'Private education services', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'A. Compulsory Education', '', '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound', None, None, '1) Unbound\n2) Unbound\n3) None\n4) Unbound', None, None, ''], [None, 'Services (primary &', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'secondary I)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 921 + part of', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '922)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['B. Non-Compulsory\nSecondary Education\nServices (secondary II)\n(part of CPC 922)', 'B. Non-Compulsory', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'Secondary Education', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'Services (secondary II)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 922)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['C. Higher Education Services\n(part of CPC 923)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['D. Adult Education Services\n(part of CPC 924)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'E. Other Education Services', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'in the fields of:', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '- Foreign languages', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '- Cooking', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 929)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 34 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '6. ENVIRONMENTAL', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'Excluding public utilities', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'whether owned and', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'operated by municipalities,', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'cantons or federal', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'government or contracted', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'out by them', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['A. Sewage Services\n(part of CPC 9401)', 'A. Sewage Services', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, '(part of CPC 9401)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['B. Refuse Disposal Services\n(part of CPC 9402)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['C. Sanitation and Similar\nServices\n(part of CPC 9403)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 35 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'D. Other Environmental', '', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None], [None, '- Cleaning services of', None, None, None, None], [None, 'exhaust gases', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 9404)', None, None, None, None], [None, '- Noise abatement services', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 9405)', None, None, None, None], [None, '- Nature and landscape', None, None, None, None], [None, 'protection services', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 9406)', None, None, None, None], [None, '- Other environmental and', None, None, None, None], [None, 'ancillary services excluding', None, None, None, None], [None, 'mandatory environmental', None, None, None, None], [None, 'impact assessment and', None, None, None, None], [None, 'services associated with', None, None, None, None], [None, 'toxins or radioactivity', None, None, None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 9409)', None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None]]
 - 36 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['', '7. FINANCIAL SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'Commitments on Financial services (insurance, banking and other financial services) are in accordance with the "Understanding on Commitments in Financial Services"', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'prepared under the GATS (hereafter "Understanding") and subject to limitations and conditions as contained in Part I (horizontal commitments) and as listed below. The', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'commitments in this sector shall not impose any obligation to allow non-resident financial service suppliers to solicit business.', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Insurance and Insurance-\nrelated Services', 'Insurance and Insurance-', '', 'Monopoly rights as indicated in paragraph B.1', '', '', '', '', None], [None, 'related Services', None, 'of the "Understanding": a public monopoly on', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'fire and natural damage insurance on', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'buildings exists in the following cantons:', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'Zürich, Bern, Luzern, Nidwalden, Glarus,', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'Zug, Fribourg, Solothurn, Basel-Stadt, Basel-', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'Landschaft, Shaffhausen, Argau, St. Gallen,', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'Graubünden, Appenzell Innerrhoden,', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'Thurgau, Vaud, Neuchâtel, Jura. In the', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'cantons of Nidwalden and Vaud, the public', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'monopoly on fire and natural damage', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'insurance covers also movable property', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, 'located in the buildings.', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 37 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', '3) Representative offices cannot conduct', '', '2) None\n3) A minimum of three years of experience in the\ndirect insurance business in the head office\ncountry is required\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], [None, None, 'business or act as an agent;', None, None, None], [None, None, 'for insurance companies incorporated in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland, the legal form of a "joint-stock', None, None, None], [None, None, 'company" (société anonyme/', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Aktiengesellschaft) or a "co-operative society"', None, None, None], [None, None, '(société cooperative/ Genossenschaft) is', None, None, None], [None, None, 'required;', None, None, None], [None, None, 'for branches of foreign insurance companies,', None, None, None], [None, None, 'the legal form of the insurance company in the', None, None, None], [None, None, 'head office country must be comparable to a', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Swiss "joint-stock company" or to a Swiss', None, None, None], [None, None, '"co-operative society";', None, None, None], [None, None, 'participation in the basic health insurance', None, None, None], [None, None, 'scheme requires health insurance suppliers to', None, None, None], [None, None, 'be organized in one of the following forms of', None, None, None], [None, None, 'legal entities: "association" (association/', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Verein), "co-operative society", "foundation"', None, None, None], [None, None, '(fondation/ Stiftung) or "joint-stock', None, None, None], [None, None, 'company";', None, None, None], [None, None, 'participation in the statutory pension funds', None, None, None], [None, None, 'scheme (prévoyance professionnelle/', None, None, None], [None, None, 'Berufsvorsorge) requires pension funds to be', None, None, None], [None, None, 'organized in the form of a "co-operative', None, None, None], [None, None, 'society" or a "foundation"', None, None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 38 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', 'Additional Commitments'], ['Banking and Other\nFinancial Services\n(excluding insurance)', '', 'Monopoly rights as indicated in paragraph B.1', '', '', ''], [None, None, 'of the "Understanding": two mortgage bonds', None, None, None], [None, None, 'issuance institutes have been granted an', None, None, None], [None, None, 'exclusive right for the issuance of specific', None, None, None], [None, None, 'mortgage bonds (lettre de gage/ Pfandbrief);', None, None, None], [None, None, 'with regard to the first institute only Swiss', None, None, None], [None, None, 'cantonal banks are accepted as members; in', None, None, None], [None, None, 'the case of the second institute banks with', None, None, None], [None, None, 'head office in Switzerland whose national', None, None, None], [None, None, 'mortgage loan business amounts to at least 60', None, None, None], [None, None, 'per cent of the balance sheet can be members;', None, None, None], [None, None, 'the issue of other mortgage-backed bonds is', None, None, None], [None, None, 'not affected by this regulation.', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None], ['', '', '1)7 Foreign investment funds can only be', '', '1) The issue of foreign collective investment funds\nis subject to stamp duty\n2) None\n3) Commercial presence of foreign financial\nservice suppliers is subject to specific\nrequirements relating to the name of the firm\nand the regulations on financial institutions in\nthe country of origin\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', ''], [None, None, 'marketed or distributed through a licensed', None, None, None], [None, None, 'representative agent resident in Switzerland', None, None, None], [None, None, '3) Commercial presence may be denied to', None, None, None], [None, None, 'financial service suppliers whose ultimate', None, None, None], [None, None, 'shareholders and/or beneficial owners are', None, None, None], [None, None, 'persons of a non Party;', None, None, None], [None, None, 'representative offices can neither conclude or', None, None, None], [None, None, 'deal business nor act as an agent', None, None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None]]
 - 39 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '9. TOURISM AND TRAVEL', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'RELATED SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['A. Hotels and Restaurants\n(includes catering)\n(CPC 641-643)', 'A. Hotels and Restaurants', None, '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility,\nexcept none for catering (CPC 6423)\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\ncommercial presence in Switzerland required', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility,', '', ''], [None, '(includes catering)', None, None, None, None, None, 'except none for catering (CPC 6423)', None, None], [None, '(CPC 641-643)', None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that passing an exam in the same', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'canton may be required; residency of licence', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'holder in the same canton is required in the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'canton of Jura', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'commercial presence in Switzerland required;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'residency of licence holder in same canton is', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'required in the canton of Jura', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['B. Travel Agencies and Tour\nOperators Services\n(CPC 7471)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['C. Tourist Guides Services\n(CPC 7472)', None, None, '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None, except that in order to work as a', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, 'mountain guide passing of an exam is required,', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, 'the access to which may be restricted for', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'foreigners in some cantons; some cantons may', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'restrict the ability of foreign mountain guides to', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; in order', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'to work as a mountain guide passing of an exam', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'is required, the access to which may be', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'restricted for foreigners in some cantons; some', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'cantons may restrict the ability of foreign', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, 'mountain guides to practise independently', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 40 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '10. RECREATIONAL,', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'CULTURAL AND', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, 'SPORTING SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '(other that audiovisual)', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['B. News Agency Services\n(CPC 962)', 'B. News Agency Services', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 962)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'D. Sporting and other', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'Recreational Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Sporting services\n(CPC 9641)', '- Sporting services', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 9641)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 41 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments', None, None], ['', '11. TRANSPORT SERVICES', '', '', '', None, None, '', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['A. Maritime Transport\nServices', 'A. Maritime Transport', None, '', '', None, None, '', 'Services at sea ports:', ''], [None, 'Services', None, None, None, None, None, None, 'unbound due to lack of', None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, 'technical feasibility', None], [None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, '', None], ['(a/b) International transport\nservices (passengers and\nfreight)\n(part of CPC 7211 + part of\n7212)', None, None, '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility\n2) None\n3) None except that the following forms of legal\nentities as listed hereafter, whose head office\nand real centre of activities are located in\nSwitzerland, can own and/or operate a vessel\nunder Swiss flag under the following\nconditions (vessel owner and/or shipping\ncompany):\nAt least two thirds of the shares’ voting power\nrepresenting at least the majority of the\nshare-capital of a "joint-stock company"\n(société anonyme/ Aktiengesellschaft) or a\n"stock company with unlimited partners"\n(société en commandite par actions/\nKommanditaktiengesellschaft) must be owned\nby Swiss nationals domiciled in Switzerland\nand/or by substantially Swiss-owned and\neffectively Swiss-controlled enterprises with\nregistered office in Switzerland.\nThe whole share-capital of the "joint-stock\ncompany" or of the "stock company with\nunlimited partners" must be issued in the form\nof nominative shares.', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '', None], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that for all forms of legal entities', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'mentioned under mode 3 of the market access', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'column: the majority of the members of the', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'board of directors and of the management must', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'be domiciled in Switzerland;', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'if the board of directors or the management is', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'constituted by one single person, this person', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'must be a Swiss national domiciled in', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Switzerland; in addition, the Swiss Maritime', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Navigation Office may require other executives', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'and/or senior managers of the enterprise to be', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Swiss nationals domiciled in Switzerland if', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'necessary to ensure the substantially', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Swiss-owned and effectively Swiss-controlled', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'character of the enterprise.', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'In addition, at least two thirds of the members', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'of the board of directors and of the management', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'of a "joint-stock company", of a "stock', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'company with unlimited partners", of a "limited', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'liability company" or of a "co-operative', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'society" must be Swiss nationals.', None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None]]
 - 42 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '', 'At least three quarters of the associates or', '', 'Statutory auditing reports must be drawn up by\nauditing companies with registered office in\nSwitzerland or having a branch which is\nregistered in the commercial register in\nSwitzerland.\nEligibility for public guarantee of loans for the\nfinancing of seagoing vessels reserved to\nvessels sailing under Swiss flag.\nThe financing of a vessel under Swiss flag by\nforeign funds shall in no way endanger the\ninfluence of Swiss interests on the shipping\ncompany and on the operation of the vessel.', None, None, ''], [None, None, 'other partners who account for at least three', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'quarters of the capital of a "general', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'partnership" (société en nom collectif/', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Kollektivgesellschaft), a "limited partnership"', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, '(société en commandite/', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Kommanditgesellschaft) or a "limited liability', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'company" (société à responsabilité limitée/', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung) must', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'be Swiss nationals domiciled in Switzerland', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'and/or substantially Swiss-owned and', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'effectively Swiss-controlled enterprises with', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'registered office in Switzerland.', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'At least two thirds of the members who', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'account for at least two thirds of the capital of', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'a "co-operative society" (société coopérative/', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Genossenschaft) must be Swiss nationals', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'domiciled in Switzerland and/or substantially', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Swiss-owned and effectively Swiss-controlled', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'enterprises with registered office in', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, 'Switzerland.', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['', '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;\nunbound for vessels’ crews', '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, '', '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', '', ''], [None, None, 'unbound for vessels’ crews', None, None, 'unbound for vessels’ crews;', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, 'unbound for eligibility for subsidies', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(d) Maintenance and repair\nservices of seagoing vessels\n(part of CPC 8868)', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 43 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'MARITIME AUXILIARY', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, 'SERVICES', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '- Maritime cargo-handling', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, 'services (as defined in', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'Attachment I - definition n°', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '1)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Storage and warehouse\nservices\n(part of CPC 742)', '- Storage and warehouse', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, 'services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 742)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Customs clearance services\n(as defined in Attachment I\n- definition n° 2)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- Container station and depot', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, 'services (as defined in', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'Attachment I - definition n°', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '3)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Maritime agency services\n(as defined in Attachment I\n- definition n° 4)', '- Maritime agency services', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(as defined in Attachment I', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '- definition n° 4)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- Maritime freight', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'forwarding services (as', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'defined in Attachment I -', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, 'definition n° 5)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 44 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', 'B. Internal Waterway', '', '', '', None, None, ''], [None, 'Transports', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', 'Internal waterway transport', '', '', '', None, None, ''], [None, 'on the Rhine', None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) Passenger transportation\n(part of CPC 7221)', '(a) Passenger transportation', None, '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None except that in order to sail under Swiss\nflag, vessels must be owned by a company\nwhich is substantially influenced (at least 66\nper cent of capital and vote) by persons\ndomiciled in Switzerland or in a country\naccording to the Mannheim Convention and\nthe protocols related to it\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, '(part of CPC 7221)', None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, '3) None except that traffic rights including', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'cabotage are limited on the basis of the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Mannheim Convention and the protocols', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'related to it; owner of vessels must have an', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'appropriate managing agency in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; traffic', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'rights including cabotage are limited on the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'basis of the Mannheim Convention and the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'protocols related to it', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) Freight transportation\n(part of CPC 7222)', None, None, '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None except that in order to sail under Swiss\nflag, vessels must be owned by a company\nwhich is substantially influenced (at least 66\nper cent of capital and vote) by persons\ndomiciled in Switzerland or in a country\naccording to the Mannheim Convention and\nthe protocols related to it\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that traffic rights including', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'cabotage are limited on the basis of the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Mannheim Convention and the protocols', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'related to it; owner of vessels must have an', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'appropriate managing agency in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; traffic', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'rights including cabotage are limited on the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'basis of the Mannheim Convention and the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'protocols related to it', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 45 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Rental of vessels with crew\n(part of CPC 7223)', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None except that in order to sail under Swiss\nflag, vessels must be owned by a company\nwhich is substantially influenced (at least 66\nper cent of capital and vote) by persons\ndomiciled in Switzerland or in a country\naccording to the Mannheim Convention and\nthe protocols related to it\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except that traffic rights including', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'cabotage are limited on the basis of the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'Mannheim Convention and the protocols', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'related to it; owner of vessels must have an', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'appropriate managing agency in Switzerland', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I; traffic', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'rights including cabotage are limited on the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'basis of the Mannheim Convention and the', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'protocols related to it', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['(d) Maintenance and repair of\nvessels\n(part of CPC 8868)', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(e) Pushing and towing\nservices\n(part of CPC 7224)', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(f) Supporting services for\ninternal waterway transport\n(part of CPC 745)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 46 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['C. Air Transport Services', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], ['- Aircraft repair and\nmaintenance services\n(part of CPC 8868)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Selling and marketing of air\ntransport services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', '1) None', None, '', '1) None except unbound for distribution through', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, 'CRS of air transport services provided by CRS', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, 'parent carrier', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except unbound for distribution through', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'CRS of air transport services provided by CRS', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'parent carrier', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['- Computer reservation\nsystem (CRS) services', '1) None\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '', '1) None except unbound for distribution through', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, None, 'CRS of air transport services provided by CRS', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'parent carrier', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '3) None except unbound for distribution through', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'CRS of air transport services provided by CRS', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, 'parent carrier', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, None, '', None, None], ['- Ground-handling services8\n(part of CPC 7461)', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Airport management\nservices9\n(part of CPC 7461)', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 47 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['D. Space Transport\n(CPC 733)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) Unbound', None, None, '3) Unbound', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound', None, None, '4) Unbound', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'E. Rail Transport Services', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) Passenger transportation\n(CPC 7111)', '(a) Passenger transportation', None, '', '1) Unbound', '', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, '(CPC 7111)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None except that concession is required, for', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'granting of concession there has to be a need', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'for such a railways undertaking and there is no', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'other means of transport which could handle', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'that service in an ecologically and', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'economically more reasonable way', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['(b) Freight transportation\n(CPC 7112)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound', '', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None except that concession is required, for', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'granting of concession there has to be a need', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'for such a railways undertaking and there is no', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'other means of transport which could handle', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'that service in an ecologically and', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'economically more reasonable way', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None]]
 - 48 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Pushing and towing\nservices\n(CPC 7113)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound', '', '1) Unbound\n2) None\n3) None\n4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None except that concession is required, for', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'granting of concession there has to be a need', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'for such a railways undertaking and there is no', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'other means of transport which could handle', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'that service in an ecologically and', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'economically more reasonable way', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, None, None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, None, None, None], ['(d) Maintenance and repair of\nrail transport equipment\n(part of CPC 8868)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'F. Road Transport Services', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['', '(a) Passenger transportation', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- regular, "closed-door" tours\nonly\n(part of CPC 7121)', '- regular, "closed-door" tours', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'only', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 7121)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '- occasional, excluding', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'cabotage and taxi services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 7122)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) Freight transportation\nexcluding cabotage\n(part of CPC 7123)', '(b) Freight transportation', None, '', '1) Unbound', '', '', '1) Unbound', '', ''], [None, 'excluding cabotage', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 7123)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 49 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['(c) Rental of commercial\nvehicles with operator\n(CPC 7124)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(d) Maintenance and repair of\nroad transport equipment\n(CPC 6112 + 8867)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(e) Other supporting services\nfor road transport\n(CPC 7449)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', 'H. Services Auxiliary to All', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, 'Modes of Transport', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) Cargo-handling services\n(CPC 741)', '(a) Cargo-handling services', None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, '(CPC 741)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) Storage and warehouse\nservices\n(CPC 742)', None, None, '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', '', '1) Unbound due to lack of technical feasibility', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(c) Freight transport agency\nservices\n(CPC 748)', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 50 -  
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '(d) Other auxiliary transport', '', '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'services, excluding local', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, 'pick up and delivery', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '(part of CPC 749)', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 - 51 -   
[['Modes of supply: (1) Cross-border supply (2) Consumption abroad (3) Commercial presence (4) Presence of natural persons', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['Sector or Subsector', None, None, 'Limitations on Market Access', None, None, 'Limitations on National Treatment', None, None, 'Additional Commitments'], ['', '12. OTHER SERVICES', '', '', None, None, '', None, None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['(a) Washing, cleaning and\ndyeing services\n(CPC 9701)', '(a) Washing, cleaning and', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, 'dyeing services', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '(CPC 9701)', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['(b) Hairdressing and other\nbeauty services\n(CPC 9702)10', None, None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I;', None, None], [None, None, None, None, 'commercial presence required', None, None, 'commercial presence required', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['', '(c) Other services n.e.c.', '', '', '', None, '', '', None, ''], [None, '', None, None, None, None, None, None, None, None], ['- Pet-caring services11\n(part of CPC 9709)', '- Pet-caring services11', None, '', '1) None', '', '', '1) None', '', ''], [None, '(part of CPC 9709)', None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, '', None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None], ['- Wellness services:\n- saunas and spas\n(part of CPC 9709)', None, None, '', '', '', '', '', '', ''], [None, None, None, None, '1) None', None, None, '1) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '2) None', None, None, '2) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '3) None', None, None, '3) None', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None, '4) Unbound except as indicated in Part I', None, None], [None, None, None, None, '', None, None, '', None, None]]
 AI  DS (MAS)  1. "Maritime cargo-handling services" means activities exercised by stevedore companies, including terminal operators, but not including the direct activities of dockers when this workforce is organised independently of the stevedoring or terminal operator companies. The activities covered include the organisation and supervision of the loading/discharging of cargo to/from a vessel, the lashing/unlashing of cargo, the reception/delivery and safekeeping of cargoes before shipment or after discharge.  2. "Customs clearance services" means activities consisting in carrying out on behalf of another party customs formalities concerning import, export or through-transport of cargoes, whether this service is the main activity of the service supplier or a usual complement of its main activity.  3. "Container station and depot services" means activities consisting in storing containers, whether in port areas or inland, with a view to their stuffing/stripping, repairing and making them available for shipments.  4. "Maritime agency services" means activities consisting in representing as an agent, within a given geographic area, the business interests of one or more shipping lines or shipping companies for the following purposes:  (a) marketing and sales of maritime transport and related services, from quotation to invoicing, and issuance of bills of lading on behalf of the companies, acquisition and resale of the necessary related services, preparation of documentation, and provision of business information;  (b) acting on behalf of the companies organising the call of the vessel or taking over cargoes when required.  5. "Maritime freight forwarding services" means the activity consisting in organising and monitoring shipment operations on behalf of shippers, through the acquisition of transport and related services, preparation of documentation and provision of business information.  ____________  
 AII  ETUS (M3–FLE)   The list below compiles the translations into English of forms of legal entities as, and to the extent that, they are used in this schedule:   "Association" :      association, Verein  "Co-operative society" :     société coopérative, Genossenschaft  "General partnership" :     société en nom collectif, Kollektivgesellschaft  "Limited liability company" :    société à responsabilité limitée (sàrl), Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (GmbH)  "Foundation" :      fondation, Stiftung  "Joint-stock company" :     société anonyme (SA), Aktiengesellschaft (AG)  "Limited partnership" :     société en commandite, Kommanditgesellschaft  "Stock company with unlimited partners" :  société en commandite par actions, Kommanditaktiengesellschaft  ____________                                                             
   ANNEX VIII    REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 OF ARTICLE 3.4   LIST OF MFN-EXEMPTIONS    OF ICELAND, LIECHTENSTEIN, NORWAY, SWITZERLAND 
[['Sector or Subsector', 'Description of measure\nindicating its inconsistency\nwith Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need\nfor the exemption'], ['ALL SECTORS', 'Measures aimed at promoting\nNordic cooperation such as:\n- guarantees and loans to\ninvestment projects and\nexports (The Nordic\nInvestment Bank)\n- financial support to R&D\nprojects (The Nordic Industrial\nFund)\n- funding of feasibility studies\nfor international projects (The\nNordic Fund for Project\nExports)\n- financial assistance to\ncompanies* utilizing\nenvironmental technology\n(The Nordic Environment\nFinance Corporation).', 'Denmark, Finland, Iceland,\nNorway and Sweden\n(*) Applies to East European\ncompanies, which are co-\noperating with a Nordic\ncompany.', 'Indefinite', 'To maintain and develop Nordic\nCooperation'], ['Audiovisual services;\ntransmission of\naudiovisual programmes\nAudiovisual services;\nproduction and\ndistribution of\ncinematographic works\nand television\nprogrammes', 'Measures that are adopted for\nthe implementation and in\nconformity with the\nregulations such as the EC\nTelevision Broadcasting\nDirective (no. 89/552) and\nwhich define programmes of\nEuropean origin in order to\nextend national treatment to\naudiovisual programmes\nmeeting specific origin criteria\nMeasures that are adopted for\nthe implementation of benefits\nin conformity with such\nsupport programmes as\nMEDIA and EURIMAGES to\naudiovisual programmes and\nsuppliers to these programmes,\nmeeting specific European\norigin criteria\nSupport programmes for the\nproduction and distribution of\ncinematographic works and\ntelevision programmes (The\nNordic Film and TV Fund)', 'Parties to the Council of\nEurope Convention on\nTransfrontier Television or\nother European countries\nparties to the EEA\nAgreement with whom an\nagreement may be concluded\nEuropean countries\nDenmark, Finland, Norway\nand Sweden', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite\nIndefinite', 'The promotion of cultural\nidentity within the broadcasting\nsector in Europe, as well as\nachievement of certain linguistic\npolicy objectives\nPreservation and promotion of\nthe regional identity of the\ncountries concerned\nTo maintain and develop Nordic\ncooperation'], ['', 'Measures based upon\ngovernment-to-government\nframework agreements, and\nplurilateral agreements, on co-\nproduction of audiovisual\nworks, which confer National\nTreatment to audiovisual\nworks covered by these\nagreements, in particular in\nrelation to distribution and\naccess to funding', 'All countries with whom\ncultural cooperation may be\ndesirable (agreements\nalready exist, or are being\nnegotiated, with the\nfollowing countries: France,\nCanada)', 'Indefinite (The\npromotion of cultural\nlinks between countries\ncannot be time bound)', 'The aim of these agreements is\nto promote cultural links\nbetween the countries concerned'], ['Audiovisual services', 'To confer national treatment to\naudiovisual works covered by\nbi- or plurilateral agreements on\nco-production in the filed of\naudiovisual works, in particular in\nrelation to access to funding and to\ndistribution\nMeasures granting the benefit of\nsupport programmes, such as\nMEDIA and EURIMAGES, and\nmeasures relating to the allocation\nof screentime which implement\narrangements such as the Council\nof Europe Convention on\nTransfrontier Television and\nconfer national treatment, to\naudiovisual works and/or to\nsuppliers of audiovisual services\nmeeting specific European origin\ncriteria\nConcessions for the operation of\nradio or television broadcast\nstations may be granted to persons\nof countries other than\nLiechtenstein', 'All countries with whom\ncultural co-operation may be\ndesirable\nEuropean countries\nAll countries with whom\ncultural co-operation may be\ndesirable', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite\nIndefinite', 'Promotion of common cultural\nobjectives\nPromotion of cultural objectives\nbased on long standing cultural\nlinks\nPromotion of common cultural\nobjectives, and to regulate access\nto a market limited in scale in\norder to preserve diversity of\nsupply'], ['Construction and\nrelated Engineering', 'The right of commercial presence\nand the right of presence of natural\npersons is dependent on\nreciprocity for service providers\nfrom Liechtenstein', 'All countries', 'Indefinite', 'To ensure adequate market\naccess to services providers from\nLiechtenstein'], ['Road transport services\n(passenger and freight)', 'To regulate, on the basis of mutual\naccess to the market, transport of\ngoods and/or passengers by\nvehicles registered in countries\nother than Liechtenstein in, into,\nout of, or in transit through\nLiechtenstein territory, normally\nbased on bilateral agreements', 'All countries with whom\nbilateral agreements on road\ntransport or other\narrangements relating to\nroad transport exist or may\nbe desirable (at present\napprox. 45 countries)', 'Exemption needed until\nmultilateral liberalization\nof road transport services,\ntaking into account\nregional specificity and\nenvironmental effects of\nroad transport, will have\nbeen agreed upon', 'To take into account regional\nspecificity of the provision of\nroad transport services and to\nprotect the integrity of road\ninfrastructure and environment'], ['All sectors', 'Measures based on bilateral\nagreements between Switzerland\nand Liechtenstein, with the\nobjective of providing for the\nmovement of all categories of\nnatural persons supplying services.\nAccording to the Liechtenstein\nlegislation the right of presence of\nnatural persons in all sectors is\ndependent on reciprocity for\nservices providers from\nLiechtenstein', 'Switzerland\nAll countries', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite', 'EElleemmeennttss ooff aa ccoommpprreehheennssiivvee sseett\nooff bbiillaatteerraall aaggrreeeemmeennttss bbeettwweeeenn\nSSwwiittzzeerrllaanndd aanndd LLiieecchhtteennsstteeiinn..\nTo ensure adequate market\naccess to services providers from\nLiechtenstein'], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Description of measure\nindicating its inconsistency\nwith Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['Road transport:\nPassenger and Freight\nAudiovisual services:\nTransmission of\naudiovisual programmes\nto the public', 'Provisions of existing and\nfuture road transport\nagreements with one or more\ncountries to reserve traffic\nrights for carriage to/from\nNorway and between third\ncountries concerned. Road\ncabotage can also be allowed\nfor specific countries\nMeasures that are taken for\nthe implementation and in\nconformity with the\nregulations such as the EC\nTelevision Broadcasting\nDirective (No. 89/552) and\nwhich define programmes of\nEuropean origin in order to\nextend national treatment to\naudiovisual programs\nmeeting specific origin\ncriteria', 'All countries\nParties to the Council of\nEurope Convention on\nTransfrontier Television or\nother European countries\nwith whom an agreement\nmay be concluded', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite', 'Regional specificity of road\ntransport services\nThe promotion of cultural identity\nwithin the broadcasting sector in\nEurope, as well as achievement of\ncertain linguistic policy objectives'], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Description of measure\nindicating its inconsistency\nwith Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['Audiovisual services:\nMotion picture and\nvideo tape production\nand distribution services\nAudiovisual services:\nProduction and\ndistribution of\ncinematographic works\nand television\nprogrammes in Nordic\ncountries\nAudiovisual services:\nProduction and\ndistribution of\ncinematographic works\nand television programs', 'To confer national treatment\non audiovisual works\nthrough government-to-\ngovernment framework\nagreements on film co-\nproduction. Such works may\nin some cases receive access\nto funding when this would\nnot otherwise be available to\nco-production.\nMeasures that are adopted for\nthe implementation of\nbenefits in conformity with\nsuch support programs as the\nNORDIC FILM and TV\nFUND in order to enhance\nproduction and distribution\nof audiovisual works\nproduced in Nordic countries\nMeasures that are adopted for\nthe implementation of\nbenefits in conformity with\nsuch support programs as\nMEDIA and EURIMAGES\nto audiovisual programs and\nsuppliers to these programs,\nmeeting specific European\norigin criteria', 'All countries\nFinland, Norway, Sweden,\nIceland and Denmark\nEuropean countries', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite\nIndefinite', 'The aim of such agreements is to\npromote cultural links between\nthe countries concerned\nPreservation and promotion of the\nregional identity of the countries\nconcerned\nPreservation and promotion of the\nregional identity of the countries\nconcerned'], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Description of measure\nindicating its inconsistency\nwith Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['All sectors', 'Measures aimed at\npromoting Nordic co-\noperation, such as:\n- guarantees and loans\nto investment\nprojects and exports\n(The Nordic\nInvestment Bank);\n- financial support to\nR&D projects (The\nNordic Industrial\nFund);\n- funding of feasibility\nstudies for\ninternational projects\n(The Nordic Fund\nfor Project Exports);\n- financial assistance to\ncompanies* utilizing\nenvironmental\ntechnology (The Nordic\nEnvironment Finance\nCo-operation)', 'Denmark, Sweden, Finland,\nIceland and Norway\n(*) Applies to East European\ncompanies, which are co-\noperating with one or more\nNordic companies.', 'Indefinite', 'To maintain and develop Nordic\nco-operation'], ['Sector or Subsector', 'Description of measure\nindicating its inconsistency\nwith Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need for\nthe exemption'], ['CRS and sales and\nmarketing of air\ntransport services\nDomestic Maritime\nTransport: Passenger\nand Freight', 'The obligations of CRS\nsystem vendors or of parent\nand participating air carriers\nshall not apply where\nequivalent treatment is not\naccorded in the country of\norigin of the parent carrier or\nof the system vendor\nProvisions of agreements on\naccess to domestic maritime\ntransport', 'All countries where a CRS\nsystem vendor or a parent air\ncarrier is located\nDenmark, Finland, Iceland,\nGermany, Sweden and UK', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite', 'The need for the exemption\nresults from the insufficient\ndevelopment of multilaterally\nagreed rules for the operation of\nCRS\nThese agreements go beyond the\nrights covered by the EEA\nagreement and are thus\napplicable. The exemption will\nallow for entering partial and\nprogressive commitments in this\nsector.'], ['Sector or\nsubsector', 'Description of measure indicating its\ninconsistency with Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need\nfor the exemption'], ['Audiovisual\nservices', 'To confer national treatment to\naudiovisual works covered by bilateral\nor plurilateral agreements on\ncoproduction in the field of\naudiovisual works, in particular in\nrelation to access to funding and to\ndistribution\nMeasures granting the benefit of\nsupport programmes, such as MEDIA\nand EURIMAGES, and measures\nrelating to the allocation of screen time\nwhich implement arrangements such\nas the Council of Europe Convention\non Transfrontier Television and confer\nnational treatment, to audiovisual\nworks and/or to suppliers of\naudiovisual services meeting specific\nEuropean origin criteria', 'All countries with whom\ncultural cooperation may\nbe desirable (at present\nagreements exist with\nmember countries of the\nCouncil of Europe and\nwith Canada)\nEuropean countries', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite', 'Promotion of common cultural\nobjectives\nPromotion of common cultural\nobjectives based on longstanding\ncultural links'], ['Sector or\nsubsector', 'Description of measure indicating its\ninconsistency with Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need\nfor the exemption'], ['Audiovisual\nservices - only\nterrestrial\nbroadcasting or\nwhen broadcaster\nwants to be\nsupported\nfinancially through\nrevenues of\nreception fees\nInternal waterways\ntransport\nRoad transport\nservices\n(passenger and\nfreight)', 'Concessions for the operation of radio\nor television broadcast stations may be\ngranted, on the basis of reciprocity\nwith regard to foreign capital\nparticipation in this sector\nTo allow transport services on the\nRhine including cabotage to vessels\nregistered in countries other than\nSwitzerland on the basis of the\nMannheim Convention (including\nrelated additional articles and\nprotocols) and other agreements on\ninternal waterways transport in Europe\nTo regulate, on the basis of mutual\naccess to the market, transport of\ngoods and/or passengers by vehicles\nregistered in countries other than\nSwitzerland in, into, out of, or in\ntransit through Swiss territory,\nnormally based on bilateral agreements', 'All countries in which\naccess to broadcasting\nservices is granted on the\nsame basis as under Swiss\nlaw\nBeneficiaries of the\nMannheim Convention\nand other agreements\nrelating to internal\nwaterways transport in\nEurope to which\nSwitzerland may be a\nmember (at present\nmembers of EC)\nAll countries with whom\nbilateral agreements on\nroad transport or other\narrangements relating to\nroad transport exist or\nmay be desirable (at\npresent approximately 45\ncountries)', 'Indefinite\nIndefinite\nExemption needed until\nmultilateral liberalization\nof road transport services,\ntaking into account\nregional specificity and\nenvironmental effects of\nroad transport, will have\nbeen agreed upon', 'Promotion of common cultural\nobjectives, and to regulate access\nto a market limited in scale\n(given the size of Switzerland) in\norder to preserve diversity of\nsupply\nTo regulate transport capacity on\ninland waterways\nTo take into account regional\nspecificity of the provision of\nroad transport services and to\nprotect the integrity of road\ninfrastructure and environment'], ['Sector or\nsubsector', 'Description of measure indicating its\ninconsistency with Article 3.4', 'Countries to which the\nmeasure applies', 'Intended duration', 'Conditions creating the need\nfor the exemption'], ['All sectors', 'Measures based on bilateral\nagreements between the Principality of\nLiechtenstein, or the European\nCommunity and/or its Member States\nand Switzerland, with the objective of\nproviding for the movement of all\ncategories of natural persons supplying\nservices', 'The Principality of\nLiechtenstein and the EC', 'Indefinite', 'Elements of a comprehensive set\nof bilateral agreements between\nSwitzerland and the Principality\nof Liechtenstein and between\nSwitzerland and the EC']]
     ANNEX IX   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 3 OF ARTICLE 3.9   MUTUAL RECOGNITION 
ANNEX IX MUTUAL RECOGNITION 
       ANNEX X   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4 OF ARTICLE 3.16   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES   
. 
     ANNEX XI   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4 OF ARTICLE 3.16   CO-PRODUCTION OF BROADCASTING PROGRAMMES
ANNEX XI   REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 4 OF ARTICLE 3.16   CO-PRODUCTION OF BROADCASTING PROGRAMMES         
 ANNEX XII   REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 6.2    CONTACT POINTS REGARDING GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT 
  ANNEX XIII    REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH 1 OF ARTICLE 7.1   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
 RECORD OF UNDERSTANDING RELATING TO THE FREE TRADE AGREEMENT BETWEEN KOREA AND THE EFTA STATES 
